---
layout: post
title: Mark 12 - Love God, love others as oneself
tag: Mark
---
Our Lord Jesus Christ spoke to the scribes, the elders, the chief priest a parable regarding how they were acting wickedly against God & their covetousness against God’s people, Israel. They always wanted control & when they had some, they wanted more to the point that they would kill. It’s an illustration of how God sent His prophets to bring back the people of Israel to repentance so that they can serve & worship God, instead they kill the prophets because that would lead the people away from listening to them & they would lost control over the people. Now the son represent Jesus Christ to bring back the people of Israel back to God, to restore the true worship towards God but that would mean the scribes, the elders, the chief priest losing control over the people so they plotted to kill the son. So they tried everything in their power even to the point of controlling the Pharisees and some Herodians to trap Jesus Christ in what He said but He always handled it & answered wisely. 

There was one particular scribe who probably saw thru everything and was convicted by the power of the Holy Spirit asking what is the first commandment? He agreed with Our Lord Jesus Christ and called him Teacher, the scribe knew in his heart that “to love God with all the heart and with all the understanding and with all the strength’ and ‘to love one’s neighbor as oneself’—this is much more important than all whole burnt offerings and sacrifices” is the truth. Jesus Christ said that he is not far from the kingdom of God. Even thru all this persecution, snares and traps, the gospel of God expanded & the seeds grown to the point that one of scribe understood a little bit more about the kingdom of God. 

In contrast, Jesus Christ gave warning to not become like the scribes who desired social status, power & glory for their own sake, instead He taught them the opposite, how a widow gave everything she had was indeed the one that obtain the higher honor from God. It’s a stark reminder that we should desire honor from God and not from men, to stay away from the traps and snares of becoming a performer. May our Lord Jesus Christ help us all to become someone who truly worship from the heart & not just performing on stage. 
