---
layout: post
title: Matthew 23 - Forsake hypocrisy & practice justice, mercy & faith
tag: Matthew
---

The whole chapter addressed the issue of hypocrisy, the scribes & Pharisees were teaching the people the law of Moses but they neglected what God desires, that’s justice, mercy & faith. They were obsessed with honor & respect by the people which increased their self-centeredness & this often dulls the heart, blinding them from the needs of others. Once they projected the impression of being a perfect person they often have to maintain that mask or performance. What our Lord Jesus Christ wants was for us to genuinely transformed from our heart to desire & practice justice, mercy & faith. This usually accompanies suffering for many learn thru experience & then it stays in their heart. 

Even when Lord Jesus Christ rebuked the scribes & Pharisees, He still desires them like a mother hen gathering her chicks around her, for protection, provision & life-giving to them. He did not hate them but He wanted to show them the truth however He was rejected. Their consequences would be to left to desolation but there’s still hope for those who eventually believe & accept our Lord Jesus Christ as stated in v39. 

It’s a reminder for us that we ought to be balance in our views but most importantly to view our brothers & sisters thru God’s eyes & thru God’s heart. Sometimes a soft word or a rebuke spoken appropriately will be beneficial for their lives. May the Lord help us to be wise & discreet in our heart, words & actions in order to glorify our God. 
