---
layout: post
title: Matthew 24 - Be watchful & persistent in doing the will of God
tag: Matthew
---

The disciples asked the Lord Jesus Christ about the end times & He warned them about the false prophets that will lead many astray by saying that they are the Messiah or predicting the time when Jesus Christ will come. Our Lord Jesus Christ made it clear that only the Father knows the exact time. He also warned of the coming wars & rumours of wars accompanying with famines & earthquakes but it’s only the beginning of the end times. The end will only come when the good news of the kingdom spread throughout the world & to all nations. 

When the end comes, it will be cut short for the sake of the elect, but beware that if any false messiahs and false prophets appear & produce great signs & wonders, do not believe them for it will be obvious when Son of Man comes. It will involve a great cosmic event & the sign of the Son of Man will appear in heaven, coming on the clouds of heaven with power & great glory. His angels will be sent out with a loud trumpet call & gather the elect from the all over the world. 

The key message in this is that our Lord Jesus Christ wants us to keep doing His will, be watchful & not to be obsessed or distracted by the prediction of the future. It serves as a warning for us to be aware of false prophets or false messiahs which did happen & cause the lost of many precious souls. In 2026, we have access to history records & much more privilege to be able to discern facts & falsehood, though the danger is not at the obvious. It’s when we can’t tell, or when our loved ones or those we trust feed us information or deception that they don’t even know they were being deceived. So it’s important to be watchful in prayer & ask God to always reveal the truth & help us all to see the truth, keep us from evil then focus on our Lord Jesus Christ to lead us in doing His will, which is to practice justice, mercy & faithful to Him.
