---
layout: post
title: Mark 3 - True believers practice the ways of God
tag: Mark
---
Jesus Christ’s compassion did not stop at physical ailment but at one who is suffering from the decay of dignity due to a withered hand, a disability that did not take away the ability of livelihood but also the sense of existence. It’s easy to fall into depression and believed that he had become useless in his life, there would be no meaning for him to stay alive & Jesus Christ saw thru that. He knew that it’s not simply about a withered hand but it’s matter of life and death. When Jesus Christ restored his hand, all his dreams & hopes were also restored. He became a new born life again, this time more than just physical life itself with faith in Jesus Christ. He received the gift of salvation. On the contrary, Jesus Christ expressed His anger on His face because of His grief for the hardness of the heart of the Pharisees. All the more, the Pharisees did not repent but immediately conspired with the Herodians to destroy Him. 

Our Lord Jesus Christ did not focus on those who did not believed in Him, but He spent more and more time in healing the sick & with His disciples then He sent them out to preach & to cast out demons as well. When He cast out demons, He was accused of being demonic. This is so familiar with our lives as well, sometimes when people are out of reasonable accusations, they’ll just blurt out something to accuse people of being “insane” or demonic. Even our Lord Jesus Christ was not spared from that. Jesus Christ rebuked them, those who have harden their heart & said all those things accusatively, intentionally, even when they knew it wasn’t true, that they have accused the Holy Spirit as the evil spirit, that’s blasphemy against the Holy Spirit. The point is that they said it even when they know it isn’t true & insist on that. The difference is one who question or doubt with puzzling thoughts, another is intentionally accusing the Holy Spirit because they were jealous or offended by our Lord Jesus Christ. They will never be forgiven because they kept on rejecting the Holy Spirit & our Lord Jesus Christ. Continuously…  

Then Our Lord Jesus Christ taught an important lesson, “Whoever does the will of God is my brother and sister and mother.” This is to say that true family of God is the one what do the will of God, being merciful of a life. Only those who truly believe in God will accept His teachings, learn His ways, practice what He commanded & to produce the fruits of the Holy Spirit that represent God’s love. 
