---
layout: post
title: Mark 13 - Be alert & trust in God
tag: Mark
---
Just like anyone, the disciples were intrigued by the magnificence of large and great buildings which was built by men. Any normal person would take pride in that but when they were impressed by it, Jesus Christ guide them to the truth that all these are just temporary, it will not last and disappear or destroyed. Peter, James, John and Andrew asked Him when will that happen. Many people has fallen into that curiosity of future predictions out of many reasons, to prepare or to make certain decisions, or to move far away from a place that is disastrous, so this topic become a popular & easy trap for even the most logical or self-assured men. It’s in our history as well that many has fallen into the traps of deceptive cults & false prophecies that led to loss as they made investments financially, emotionally & time. 

There’s one root that is worthy of exploration that is what is it that drives oneself to know the future, was it fear of the unknown, FOMO or just fear of losses, then dig deeper. If it’s fear of the unknown, what would it benefit if one knew, what if one does not miss out ? Does it benefit in anyways in term of the kingdom of God according to God’s will, if so wouldn’t it be better to trust in God, if it’s God’s will, we do our best to follow Him, His plans won’t fail. If it’s fear of losses, have one stray too far from the Lord and see that as more important than God? All these rooted out of one cause, that’s idolatry or maybe a softer term, missing the mark… 

This is not to judge anyone but it’s to bring out the message of this chapter of how our Lord Jesus Christ wants us to be alert and beware of false prophecies & teachings. Anyone is susceptible to deception & temptation, so what then shall we do? Our Lord Jesus Christ already told us how the future will be like, it is important that we read His word daily as well to keep our heart & mind in check, to be align with God’s will for the word of God contains God’s will. 

As followers or disciples of Christ, our mission & destiny is not far from suffering, so let us take heart that when that happens, we know that we have one Teacher, one Leader the Most High Priest has walked before us and paved the way. We just have to follow His ways. It is not easy but it is as simple as it can be. So our Lord Jesus Christ exhort the disciples & us now thru His words to be awake and alert to not fall into deceptions or false prophecies for no one knows when He is coming but there are certain signs of seasons such as famine, war and cosmic disturbances that show that it is the beginning of the birth pangs. Suffering & persecution will rise and many sorrows of betray shall land upon many but let us take heart that the one who endures to the end will be saved. We ought to endure till the end for His name’s sake & to stay faithful to Him, trust in Him and never give up on that. May our Lord Jesus Christ strengthen us in our inner being that enable us to follow Him forever. 
