---
layout: post
title: Mark 11 - True worship
tag: Mark
---

Jesus Christ spoke to His disciples to get a colt for His entrance into Jerusalem, not a horse nor a chariot but a colt. It signifies that Jesus Christ is taking a lowly place willingly & the people who welcome Him with praise and shouts were displaying who He really is exactly without masquerade or makeups. This is true humility that is authoritative by itself regardless of power but of the identity that came from God. 

The curse on the fig tree which Jesus Christ spoken on was due to the fact that the house of Israel has become a performative without real genuine relationship & worship towards God. The temple has become a stage with expensive props and decoration without genuine repentance that was required in sacrificial offerings. That was why He cleanse the temple and said it should be house of prayers but became the den or robbers. Churches are not exempt from that, it has become clearer and clearer that many has abuse the people of God by misusing the law or scripture of God to get more power and money. Many fell into that deception and starve their own needs or even family’s needs. Moreover in the previous chapter how they teach others that sacrifice to God can exempt on from honoring parents. This is wrong & need to be corrected. Giving out of willingness and according to one’s ability is not wrong nor is it bad, but it’s the intention of the heart. God has also commanded that we must take care of the widows and orphans, do not oppress the weak, act justly towards one another. However the very temple or churches that were suppose to be the plumbline has become so rotten without repentance. That was why Jesus Christ responded that way in the temple. 

Jesus Christ taught the disciples that whatever we ask in prayer will be done if only we believe we’ve gotten it. He was teaching the lesson of faith but He also added in that we must forgive those who have sinned against us. Here the forgiveness is not regarding chronic abusive situation, the forgiveness towards that is from the place of releasing the pain for the sake of one own’s sanity & healing. Only when one acknowledges that their abuser is guilty no matter what kind of manipulation or gaslighting they did, then only there’s a need for forgiveness because they truly are guilty. However it doesn’t mean automatic reconciliation or restoring trust, the perpetrator will be one that needs to earn back the trust even if it means for the rest of their lives because they were the one that broke the trust. This is wisdom. 

Back to the context of this scripture today, see the chief priests and elders of the people still challenge the authority of our Lord Jesus Christ, they never repented & that’s how they blasphemed the Holy Spirit. It was a continuous rejection & unbelief towards God. 

Let us all be reminder then it is impenitent that we follow our Lord Jesus Christ by building a genuine relationship with God & worship God in spirit and in truth, practicing justly & be kind to each other, look to the needy & help them according to our ability, turn away from the deception of thinking that doing good in sacrificial offerings can offset the wrongs. It is only by grace thru accepting Jesus Christ that we are saved, then when we follow Jesus Christ from our heart thru faith, we will become Christlike… 
