---
layout: post
title: Matthew 26 - God’s will be done
tag: Matthew
---
It is time for Jesus Christ to fulfilled His mission, God’s will & before that, a woman anointed Him with an alabaster jar of very costly ointment. This action though stirred up the dissatisfaction of the disciples with the argument of better us of the money. However this woman knew that Jesus Christ was going to die soon & it is nothing compare to what Jesus Christ is about to do for the humankind. Often times when one is too focus on some topic or needs, they will quickly take notice of it, maybe the disciples were in poverty or maybe they were concern about the poor but this anointing was considered a good service by Jesus Christ. From then on, Judas Iscariot plotted & took action to approach the chief priest to betray Jesus Christ…for 30 pieces of silver. The contrast of what the woman did & Judas did was incomparable as Judas not only broke the trust & relationship in between Jesus Christ, but also with the disciples, even more so with the chief priest that they know now he is untrustworthy. 

When Jesus Christ knew that Judas was going to betray Him & even His disciples will forsake Him, that He will be all alone, yet He did not try to run away from His mission. It is exactly why we can rely on Jesus Christ, our Lord, when He promised us. Even so, let us not be too quick to judge but be vigilant in our walk of faith as we can see from history many of the disciples who then became apostles of the early church were martyred. They were able to do it only after they saw & experienced how Jesus Christ died for them for it is God that love us first, that we can then love. One of the key message in this chapter is the will of God be done. Our Lord Jesus Christ tried to pray away the persecution’s to come, but in the end He submitted to the will of our Heavenly Father so that His will be done & not Jesus Christ’s. It shows that Jesus Christ was as human as us struggling in the flesh & spirit, in selfwill & God’s will. It’s a reminder for all believers to submit ourselves to God & always trust that His will is the best. 
