---
layout: post
title: Matthew 28 - Resurrection of Jesus Christ
tag: Matthew
---

This chapter is the good news of the whole book, where our Lord Jesus Christ of Nazareth resurrected from death by our Father in Heaven! Mary Magdalene and the other Mary were one of those that first met the risen Jesus Christ as they were on their way to share the good news to His disciples. Here’s a warm greeting from our Lord, He told them to not be afraid & tell the brothers & sister to go to Galilee, He did not rebuke them for leaving Him when persecution came but wanted them to be able to see Him. His love & mercy overcomes all the pain of being forsaken then. 

The chief priests were told of the resurrection & they knew what happened but still won’t admit that they were wrong about Jesus Christ, even so they told the guards to lie for a large sum of money & spread the false news of His body being stolen by His disciples. The wicked became more wicked, it’s a stark reminder for us also not only to judge but be vigilant in always coming to God for confession & repentance with a gentle & soft heart, may the Lord keep our hearts clean always. 

When the disciples heard what happened, they went to the mountain in Galilee, saw Him & worshipped Him, it was then they were given the great commission of making disciples of all nations, baptizing them in the name of the Father and of the Son and of the Holy Spirit and teaching them to obey everything that He has commanded them & the best is that He will always be with them, to the end of the age. It is important as believers of Christ that we also grow in spirit & to fulfilled the great commission that was given by our Lord Jesus Christ. 
