---
layout: post
title: Mark 2 - Mercy triumphs rituals & laws
tag: Mark
---

The healing of the paralytic man that was being helped by his friends to come down from the roof is one of the most touching story in the miracles. I was touched by the kindness of those around him as they did not give up even when there’s so much people around, it seems like there was obstacle, but it did not stop them, they came out with a creative solution & lift him down so that he can be healed by our Lord Jesus Christ. This man is not only blessed by the healing & forgiveness by our Lord but the kind friendship that surrounds him. When Jesus Christ saw their faith, He said “Child, your sins are forgiven”! However the scribes were so obsessed about right & wrong, they totally missed the point, not that I judge them for I was in the same blinded situation with them. 

The events of eating with tax collectors, question about fasting & the Sabbath law points back to the center of message of Mark chapter 2, which is mercy triumphs rituals & laws. They were not wrong for wanting to follow the law & rituals, but they were too obsessed over it that they disregard the needs of human & being inappropriate at that time. If one is hungry & in need of food, they can eat. Jesus Christ ate with the tax collectors in hope to save the sinners, here’s a contrast in between the Pharisees & John’s disciples with the tax collectors, they were already piety to the law, thinking that they have been washed clean & have no sins. The tax collectors on the other hand knew they were sinners & guilty for their sins & more than ready to accept the grace & forgiveness from our Lord Jesus Christ. All that rituals & laws were suppose to keep one from sinning, that’s true but because of the temptation of self-righteousness & delusions of thinking that they have done all that’s to be done which is by their own works & not by grace of God, not that anyone can boast of their own works…if God did not bless it or give it to anyone, who can receive? 

This is not to say that it is a green pass for those who keep on abusing the grace of God or to oppress their partner or others, no matter what kind of position they hold. This is in the context of salvation. 

It may sound like a broken record but I think it’s a good reminder for myself, for believers that the main purpose of our Lord Jesus Christ coming to the world is to save sinners, leading them to repentance, only the sick need the doctor… This is the good news of our Lord Jesus Christ, the gift of salvation for mankind from God. 



