---
layout: post
title: Matthew 27 - Crucifixion of Jesus Christ
tag: Matthew
---

This chapter is painfully recorded of course during the time of Jesus Christ’s crucifixion, as a human being, there’s the emotional sense & wanting justice to prevail, even though Jesus Christ knew His mission well, that He will be betrayed & forsaken, when we just think about that we know that it does not feel good, but a great sorrow that cries from the deepest core of our being. Nobody likes to be framed or accused, or maybe I haven’t met one that likes it yet. Our Lord Jesus Christ felt that same sorrow or maybe even more but He walked the calvary willingly without resistant knowing that it’s the Father’s will & knowing that His sacrifice for love will restore the relationship of human being with God. 

Judas repented & died by his own hands because he couldn’t bear the guilt of betraying Jesus Christ. This is his tragic end. On the cross, Jesus Christ was willing to forgive those who wronged Him for they did not know what they were doing. When He gave His last breath, there were cosmic disturbances & the sky was dark for 3 hours. 

> v50-51 Then Jesus cried again with a loud voice and breathed his last. At that moment the curtain of the temple was torn in two, from top to bottom. The earth shook, and the rocks were split. The tombs also were opened, and many bodies of the saints who had fallen asleep were raised.

Then the centurion & those that were keeping watch over Jesus saw all that, they were terrified & said that truly this man was God’s son! I’d like to believe that many who were involved in accusing Jesus, either repented & converted or they live in fear for the rest of their lives knowing that they have done a very bad thing. As we all know fear leads to fight or flight, so some may still fight against God even harder than before just like Pharaoh or some like the king of Nineveh repented. The message of this chapter is that our Lord Jesus Christ’s sacrifice on the cross in innocence gave us the gift of eternal salvation but the condition is that we accept Him. 

Romans 10:9–10 “9 because if you confess with your mouth that Jesus is Lord and believe in your heart that God raised him from the dead, you will be saved. 10 For one believes with the heart, leading to righteousness, and one confesses with the mouth, leading to salvation.” 
