---
layout: post
title: Mark 10 - Amazing Grace
tag: Mark
---
Following Jesus Christ is challenging in many ways, it’s a journey of revelation as who one really is & sometimes that’s the cross one has to bear, the more that is revealed, the more that one understood, the more that one sees how wretched one was & then it become a beautiful journey full of life from Christ that is famously known in the song “Amazing Grace”. This amazing grace of salvation is given by our God freely, there’s no way to earn it, our Lord Jesus Christ sacrificed willingly for us. Grace can never be earned else it’s not grace, that’s work & it is so that one may not boast that it is their effort. Salvation is a gift from God. 

The divorce question towards Jesus Christ as a test just continued to reveal what’s in their hearts. I’m greatly impressed & amazed by our Lord Jesus Christ’s wisdom every time He answered those who test Him. They were already hardened in their heart meaning that they already made up their mind & set on a purpose with a hidden intention that seeks justification for their own desires. Look at the children, they are pure in heart, transparent, you get what you see in the sense that you don’t have to guess & gauge like how we learn in society to wear a mask, if we as adult behave that way, it’s considered anti-social and so this is a dire matter when I think about this. It’s not easy to become someone who is not a “performer”/”hypocrite” but it’s not impossible with God’s help. It’s a process of learning & letting go of selfish desire & trust in God amidst of fear of rejection. 

In the context of Jewish culture or worldly view, the wealthy are seen as the blessed ones, they attain higher social status because of the ability given by God to better education, better career, able to be more generous as they have more & gain more influence. It doesn’t mean that it is not good, it just means that people naturally praise them as they give more than the poor or middle income community. Jesus Christ use this illustration of camel & needle is to bring out the message that it’s impossible to gain salvation with their own efforts, but with God it is possible. That’s the amazing grace & gift from our Father in heaven, He is the one that made it possible for us to be saved. The rich person who asked Jesus Christ “what must I do to inherit eternal life?”, he was seeking for salvation on his own effort, so our Lord Jesus Christ revealed what’s in his heart & when he saw what’s in his heart, truly seeing for the first time who he really was, the goodness that he was always praised for is not good after all…

The disciples were also stuck in a mindset of wanting stature & power, to become the greatest but our Lord Jesus Christ addressed that issue wisely, to reveal to them that He came to serve, then said whoever wishes to become great must be the servant. Even with that answer, if one takes it in a twisted mindset, or impure heart then serve with the intention of becoming the greatest, that also is still questionable of whether one is pure in heart like a child… 

Now, the blind man, he was desperate for only one thing, to be able to see! He knew what he wanted & he asked exactly for that. It is often times when it seems like everything is lost, the heart will begin to see more clearly what one actually need or desire & when one ask with that pure heart in great intensity & desperation, God may answer. However reeling it back to the context of this chapter, it is a contrast of the ones who can see physically but blinded in truth upon the matters of the heart with those who are blinded but seeking desperately for God eventually sees that the Lord Jesus Christ is the truth & follow Him. 
