---
layout: post
title: Mark 6 - True authority & power of our Lord Jesus Christ
tag: Mark
---

This chapter consists of the contrast of a few groups, the unbelief & the believers, the faithful & the doubtful. The close family or the people from His childhood did not believe in the miracles or the teachings so He could not do much. It’s a way that He maintain the harmony & peace, He did not forcefully convert them due to their unbeliefs. Then there’s His disciples that believe in Him & went out to preach the gospel, healing the sick & cast out unclean spirits with a warning & advice to leave those who refused to believe without any arguments, just shake the dust off for they have tried. 

Those who are offended by the truth or teachings of righteousness are those who do no believe & so they hold grudges against them even when they know it’s true & right. This is not the matter about belief or faith but of self-centeredness, pride & greed. Herodias had something to lose from her point of view if one to follow the righteousness of God & when John rebuked with truth, she hold grudges against him & killed him. 

When Jesus Christ saw that His disciples were too busy of the ministry, He wanted them to retreat to a deserted place to rest for they had no time even to eat in tending to the people’s needs, but the crowd followed them too far into a place where it’s not possible to buy food to feed so many, so He performed a miracle of multiplication of food out of compassion for the needs of the people & the disciples. He fed 5000 men with 4 loaves of bread & two fishes! After that He made the disciples left in a boat & they could not go to the other side, so this is when Jesus Christ also performed another miracle by walking on water. I’m amazed by the compassion of Jesus Christ, He was able to just disappear like that, walking over water & leave the crowd or disciples on their own, surely He felt tiredness too but He did not, He stayed for their sake & to tend their needs & fed them full. This is true power & authority, having the power but not abusing it but use it for the sake of others. This is who our Lord Jesus Christ is. 

With that contrast in the picture, Herod who was a king & his family with power & authority could have spared a life, but abuse it for the sake of themselves. Our Lord Jesus Christ who has power & authority over the supernatural realm that no one else had use it for the sake of others. It is a reminder that we ought to use our gifts & power or authority for the sake of others, to save lives and not to take lives. 
