---
layout: post
title: Mark 14 - Relationship with God triumphs ministry works
tag: Mark
---
The love of money is the root of all evil. Judas fell into the temptation of greed, but maybe it’s deeper than that. It could be the fear of not having enough, rooting out of doubt & lack of faith in God, he did not trust in God that He could provide, hence fear took hold of him. Peter & the other disciples also started well, saying that they would follow Jesus even when all forsake Him. However when the actual arrest of Jesus Christ happened before their eyes, they were also filled with fear that took hold of them. 

What is fear? Fear is a sense of doom, anxiety, an emotion that comes from body, mind & soul or heart. It serves the purpose of keeping the body safe & from avoidable injury or even death. It’s not a bad thing that one fear, but it’s how fear is processed & to take as a helper in daily lives. The body defense system is design to survive & live, it is extremely hard & difficult to cause one to be ignorant of the fear when the knowledge is there. All living creatures are design to live & survive. However in the case of trauma & illness, it’s just the opposite, the weight of living exceeds the weight of the fear of death, this is the hard truth. Judas experience that. Peter & the other disciples on the other hand, were more fortunate, they prepared themselves before hand as they kept on accompanying Jesus Christ which I think might have prepare them for this painful experience. 

After the Holy Communion where Jesus Christ prepared the disciples for what’s to come, Peter, James & John went to Gethsemane with Him to pray. They were willing spiritually to follow Jesus Christ but the flesh is weak. For the whole time from the beginning of the ministry of Jesus Christ, they were always following closely & Jesus Christ always let them stick close to Him. In spending intimate time with our Lord Jesus Christ, they were able to get to know Him physically & there’s a connection and bonding between them. Judas was handling most of the financial department & quite ministry oriented. The intimate relationship between our Lord Jesus Christ & the disciples was the key for preparing oneself to what’s to come. The bible did not say that when we believe in our Lord Jesus Christ everything will be smooth and happy, I once fell into prosperity gospel for many years until my eyes were opened when I finally study the bible seriously. I give thanks to God that God showed me that & I empathized to all who have fallen victim to that deception as well. 

Our Lord Jesus Christ suffered & sacrificed Himself for the sake of love towards our Father in heaven & for us. That’s the gospel & center of Christianity. He came to die so that we can have life that comes from God, that we can reconciled to God Himself. He was also flesh, a man like anyone of us, with flesh, blood, emotions & fear, but He did it anyway because He wanted to fulfill our Heavenly Father’s will, not His own will. So how do we prepare for the future to come where there’s so much temptations & darkness in the world right now? It’s the relationship with God, by spending time praying to Him, have real conversation with Him & experience His leading in life, study the bible seriously & that will increase the faith & trust in Him. It’s not an overnight thing but it takes persistency, find a time and a way with the less friction to have this time with Him. If reading does not stick in a schedule or habitually, there are many audio bibles that one can just play on loop. If social media is the way that works, one could follow as many Christian channels as possible to train the algorithm to feed Christian based contents. However all these are just tools, once you get the momentum, then use the capacity to study the bible seriously & pray to God anywhere, anytime. The key is don’t give up, there will be times when we fail & lose the track record, that is not the point, the goal is picking it up again after falling. 

May our Lord Jesus Christ help us all to build a genuine and intimate relationship with Him & to run with His grace in this race to reach the goal that He has for us all. 
