---
layout: post
title: Matthew 22 - Spiritual wisdom VS Worldly wisdom
tag: Matthew
---

The kingdom of heaven is at first open to those who were first chosen in the list to be invited to the wedding banquet of the king’s son. However they did not view it seriously nor appreciate it, then they went about their own business so the king asked his servants to go & invited everyone they could find, both good and bad. The house of Israel was the VIP guest that were at first in the list, however they rejected the invitation of our Lord Jesus Christ, the Messiah so it’s now extended to the gentiles. Even so those without wedding garment which symbolized those of faith without works will not be able to remain in the kingdom of heaven for faith without works is dead. 

What are the works? James’ letters mentioned those who send the brothers & sisters away knowing their needs empty handed without help. This touches the issue of kindness, compassion, mercy & generosity. It could also mean the mission or tasks given by God, everyone is capable of knowing God’s will thru reading the bible, praying & meditating on the scriptures, the Holy Spirit draws near to those who draw near to Him. This is due to people who learn the ways of God transactionally without relationship & lean heavily on what they can get out of it so it’s common for them to fall into temptation to abuse the grace given by God which led to impenitent & causes a whole other cycles of sins & consequences that harms themselves & others. 

The Pharisees & Sadducees asked some hard questions but our Lord Jesus Christ demonstrated His spiritual wisdom that silenced them. The greatest commandment is to love the Lord, our God with all our heart and with all our soul and with all our mind, then the second commandment is to love our neighbor as ourselves. These are the principles that branches out those many other laws in details to cater for the harmony in a community. Then Jesus Christ asked them a question that they could not answer with logic as this is also part of where Jesus Christ claimed the title as the Son of David, the Messiah, the Son of God. The point is to stir them in their thinking & perhaps the desire to want to find out more or seek the truth about it. As it is recorded, Pharisees had zeal for the law of God, they studied it extensively, persistently in their beliefs that it can save them so while the Pharisees challenged Jesus Christ for the sake of trapping Him, our Lord Jesus Christ asked them questions with the intention of awakening their ability to think outside the law. 

There are times that answers that we seek does not come in words nor logic but thru experiences spiritually & those who have gone thru that, knows it & it’s never easy to have it explain. Those who believe, believes. Those who doesn’t will always jump arounds the points of doubt. However it is also crucial for us believers to ask God for wisdom so that we can stir the unbelievers to be able to think & experience God themselves that eventually lead them to salvation. We do our part by planting the seeds & let others water it then let God do His part in growing them. 
