---
layout: post
title: John 12 - Self-sacrificial of our Lord Jesus Christ
tag: John
---
As our Lord Jesus Christ was being chased & spied on for His influence grew larger & greater around the land of Israel, Mary who understood the prophecy that He is going to be sacrificed soon, prepare a pound of costly perfume made of pure nard to anoint Jesus’ feet. It’s a response from her heart to pour it all out to the one true Lord who is worthy of it all and to be able to act that way from a pure heart was a privilege and honor to both Mary & Jesus Christ. 

On the other hand, Judas Iscariot the betrayer of Jesus Christ out of the greed from his heart saw that the opportunity to get more money has slipped away thru a mere woman. I wonder if it wasn’t a woman, would Judas voiced out so confidently & just be a big bully. I’m glad that Jesus Christ stood up for Mary. It is not good to be a misogynistic nor to be a misandry,  we are no longer divided that way for there “There is no longer Jew or Greek; there is no longer slave or free; there is no longer male and female, for all of you are one in Christ Jesus.” 

The Pharisees has even plotted to kill Lazarus the proof of the miracle of resurrection that no one else can perform, but it was mainly out of envy because many Jews deserted them & followed Jesus Christ. It was always about power, control and benefits for themselves. Our Lord Jesus Christ did all that not because of Himself but it is to glorify God and He had set an example out of Himself by sacrificing on the cross to glorify the Father, our God. 

Our Lord Jesus Christ gave His life but He kept it for eternal life. God’s commandment is the eternal life, it not only leads to eternal life but also transform people in the now. Eternal life is not just something in the future after death, it is also the transformation of character to become Christlike, in terms of the fruit of the Holy Spirit. When one possess these traits how can it not be a life full of abundance that is life giving to others? But the condition is to first believe in our Lord Jesus Christ & to confess publicly. Sadly there were some Jewish rulers that did not confess publicly for they were afraid of being kicked out of the synagogue for they loved human glory more than the glory that comes from God. 

> Galatians 5:22 the fruit of the Spirit is love, joy, peace, patience, kindness, generosity, faithfulness,* 23       gentleness, and self-control

Let us pray that God open the eyes & soften the hearts of those who are seeking or in deception so that they may be saved & let us also be reminded that we ought to seek the things that glorify God. 
