---
layout: post
title: John 9 - Humility leads to hope & faith in salvation thru Jesus Christ
tag: John
---
This chapter center around the theme of sight rooting out of humility. A blind man & the Pharisees who claimed that they were knowledgeable in the matters of the God mainly the law of Moses. The context in this is not about whether or not the law is good or bad, law reveal sins not cause them nor lessen them, it’s just a ruler the one that is used to measure length of an object like a tool of measurement. It’s function is to reveal sins. When used rightly, it is to help ourselves to socialize & to do what is acceptable that please God. It is not a tool to use to judge others. 

Pharisees used it to judge others & when they did that, it create an illusion that they can see better now as they have the tool of measurement. However our Lord Jesus Christ came to the world to save sinners. It is not to say that there wasn’t any Jews that aren’t pleasing to God, there are many righteous one but still they lack one thing, that is the salvation by faith in Jesus Christ. As long as one try to save oneself thru their deeds, they will always miss the grace of God, the salvation thru our Lord Jesus Christ. It is only when the deeds are done in faith thru our Lord Jesus Christ that one becomes holy & living a life of holiness. I admit I’ve not reach that & pray for mercy of God & to help me to live a holy life that truly appease Him but that doesn’t give me an excuse to keep on repeating the same mistake. I need to learn & stop from making the same mistake. For example, I used to watch ungodly films that causes reaction to the flesh and after I know that it’s not pleasing to God, I fight against it. That’s the work after accepting our Lord Jesus Christ as my saviour. That’s how we work out the salvation that Paul mentioned. Grace is not for abuse but for appreciation & cherishing it with response of wanting to live for Christ because He is worthy. 

The Pharisees mentioned in the chapter never acknowledge their blindness & since they don’t see where they went wrong, or do not know their mistakes but still pridefully think that they were right in self-righteousness hence they became spiritually blind & could not receive the salvation that God has gifted. It’s ultimately saddening & enraging at the same time when someone close to us also have the same issue. That is why we always need God, humility is admitting where we are at we are at. Not higher, nor lower, not better nor worse but it is, at is. I need God, I always need God, I did not know that I need God until God revealed to me that I need God. When that happens, something in the heart change & there’s no words for me to articulate it, I just know that I need God & it is as sure as the gravity that pull us to the surface of the earth physically. Our spirits will always be drawn to God and that explains why there are so many idolatry going on in the world, their spirits are seeking for God, they know there is a god, those are the blinds that Jesus Christ want to reach. 

There’s hope for those who are still heavily bonded in idolatry or sins that they feel helpless & know that they need a god, yet have not encounter Jesus Christ. Like the blind man, once he encounter our Lord Jesus Christ, he was healed & able to see again & accepted our Lord Jesus Christ. Let us pray that our Lord Jesus Christ continue to help us & unbelievers to encounter Him, be healed & be saved. 
