---
layout: post
title: Luke 23 - Crucifixion of Jesus Christ
tag: Luke
---
The bible recorded the contrast of the comparison in between the chief priests & the scribes that tries to catch Jesus Christ’s fault in His words being unmatched with His wisdom that comes from heaven was a reminder as a humbling experience for them who think that they know it all but in the end their hypocrisy were revealed instead. It reminds me of the scripture that the wicked shall fall into their own nets. 

TheAfter Jesus Christ was captured and brought before Pilate, sadly He was accused with a lie saying that He forbid them to pay taxes to Caesar but when we read the gospels we know that’s not true. Pilate even said he found no basis for an accusation against this man, twice he wanted to release Jesus Christ as it’s a custom but instead they wanted him to release a murderer but then it was their hatred & envy against Jesus Christ that cause them to be blinded & so they wanted Him dead no matter what. Pilate gave in as he wanted to please the Jews. 

Our Lord Jesus Christ was mocked & treated with contempt but He completed the whole journey until His death on the cross. There was one man who was hanging with Him recognized his own fault that he rebuked the other one that mocked him. Jesus Christ knew that this man feels sorry in his heart & was humble for he said “we are getting the death sentence that we deserve for our deeds, but this Man has done nothing wrong”, so He said that he will be with Him in paradise. The key here is clear & crisp, a repentant heart & believing in Jesus Christ as he mentioned “Do you not fear God?” He believed. 

It’s a reminder that our Lord Jesus Christ was crucified for our sins & not His own, a sacrifice, a perfect lamb of God that thru Him we are justified by faith & gain salvation. Even a person who is at the face of death in his heart knew that he was wrong & when he believed, he can be in paradise with our Lord Jesus Christ. Some may argue that it’s not fair, but the sinner did suffer & die for his own sin paying the consequences, the difference is his heart changed for the better. God looks at the heart & not only on deeds. The deeds must be flowed out from the heart with the right intentions. 
