---
layout: post
title: John 5 - Eternal life by faith in Jesus Christ
tag: John
---
The Jews at that time in the AD 30s were zealous for the laws of God but due to that focal point on the issue of law & rules, they missed the mark. A miraculous healing took place, just like the man who had been ill for 38 years when met with the question “Do you want to be made well?”. His answers consist of the things that robbed his focus such as the obstacles of not being able to get to the pool as there were always someone ahead of him. He lost sight of what’s the goal & began to fall into the temptation of the thorns, the worries of the world which is the obstacles that stop him from reaching his goal that is to get healed.

When one is in survival mode for a long while, they forgot about the goal or dreams & passions that they once had because they are busy surviving to get thru the next day & the next. The Jews were also very focused on the law of God because that’s all they had & they needed to get right with God so that they can be saved & they were focussed on a Messiah that comes with militant power. Not that our God is not powerful in that way but violence is not the way of God. Some Pharisees may be hypocrites but not all of them, some were taught & misled, some were just traumatized of what was happening at that time when the Greco-Roman empire took over, some buried themselves in zeal for reformation etc. So Jesus Christ did not answer or comfort the unwell man, but told him to stand up, take up the mat and walk, Jesus Christ not only healed him but also reminded him of the goal that he’s to be made well, in order to walk again. 

The law of Moses was like a metaphor in this case, people tried so hard to be perfect or to be saved by the law but it was only thru the believing in our Lord Jesus Christ that one can be made well again to have life, to walk again in life. After accepting Jesus Christ, His command was not to sin again so that nothing worse happens to him. This is the common process of a non believer that accepted Jesus Christ then wanted to live a holy life for Jesus Christ. For example, in life, if we take a poisonous food such as moldy bread, we get sick, then the doctor made us well, and ask us not to take that moldy bread again or we get worse. Sin is like the poisonous food , the moldy bread, we can choose not to take it again. We can choose not to sin again. Of course there is a process of struggling & falling again but the key is to get bac

