---
layout: post
title: Luke 21 - Watch & Pray with Hope
tag: Luke
---
The widow’s contribution was a perfect contrast to the hypocrisy revealed by the scribes who love respectful greetings in the marketplaces & the best seats in the synagogues & places of honor at banquets but devoured widows’ houses & for the sake of appearance, say long prayers. The key is that the intention of the heart of the widow & the scribes, the widow genuinely love God that much & willing to make that much of a sacrifice. However the hypocrites, which means performer, only do it for the sake of performance. This is in the context of Jesus Christ rebuking a wrong intention in serving God, not about professions. 

Our Lord Jesus Christ knew that after His resurrection, there will be turmoils & tribulations that comes in all types & sizes, but He gave the disciples warning ahead of time so that when it really did come, they shall remember what He said. We are so privileged to have the holy bible preserve till now & throughout history we’ve heard stories of false prophets, false teachers & cults. It is wise that we heed the warnings written in the Bible as it is the word of God. Written in the past doesn’t mean that it’s obsolete, the pattern used in new or different ways either in media, technology, business or politics, religions or education is the same which is to deceive, kill & destroy anything that has to do with our Living God. There will be persecutions, betrayal, plagues, famines, wars & cosmic disturbances but as all these draw closer, we know that our redemption is drawing near as well. It maybe a sign of distress, but it is also the sign of hope that the kingdom of God is nearer. Both things can be true at the same time, we just have to shift our perspective & choose what God wants us to see. 

Let us be exhorted by the teachings of our Lord Jesus Christ to be on our guard & pray that we have strength from God to run this race & finish it the way that God wants us to finish. 
