---
layout: post
title: John 11 - So that we may believe
tag: John
---
Reading this chapter puzzled me in a sense why would Jesus be deeply disturbed or moved to tears when He already know that Lazarus will be resurrected after 4 days. Imagine when we go to the medical personnels, we were helpless and we do not know what’s going on, whether or not a person will live in a serious illness, but an experienced doctor or even nurse will appear calm & might even feels that our concern is over exaggerated because they already know the symptoms and the outcome that it’s gonna be okay. At first in the presence of the disciples, Jesus Christ appeared more calmly & stoic, maybe a hint of annoyance that He had to speak plainly when He’s trying to explain to His disciples why He wasn’t in a hurry. 

When Jesus Christ came to Martha, Mary & the others, He allowed Himself to feel their grief and He felt with them, the sorrow and the pain, their mourning were all real to them. Imagine a child, it’s the first time they saw a cartoon series and they love it very much, when it’s ended & time for bed, they wouldn’t be able to understand when the parents told them tomorrow or next week it will come back again with the next episode because it’s their first time. The trust has not been built yet. So they cry and threw tantrums because they couldn’t handle not being able to experience what they love again. So in this event, Jesus Christ did not just dismissed their pain, but He wept with them because He actually cared about them, He was sad because His friends were sad. Just let that sink in for a moment, He knew that the next minute, Lazarus will rise again, but He felt & wept with them. This opened my eyes, yes Jesus Christ came with a mission, but He wasn’t emotionless, or ignorant to others’ needs, He actually do care & did not just came & touch & go after the goal was achieved. He’s relatable. 

Then Jesus Christ prayed out loud so that they believe that God, the Father, had sent Him. Even in this mission, the goal is for the benefit of those around Him. As it is only thru believing in Him that people can have eternal salvation. God did not make it hard for people to believe in Him, but perform exactly what they need to experience so that they can believe in Him. He did not put obstacles nor set up hurdles after hurdles, nor did He move the goal post over and over again, He was ever the same. How merciful is that … how thoughtful our God is… may God open our eyes that we may notice His love for us in our lives of how He intervened in visibly or invisibly to us.
