---
layout: post
title: John 2 - From Glory to Glory
tag: John
---
The two stories combined by the author in this book rang in a similar theme of “saving the best for last” but then when we look deeper it also means from glory to glory. Continuing from the previous chapter where the Mosaic law and the baptism of John the baptist, afterwards the the baptism of the fire & Holy Spirit. Just like the wine that was finishing, that Jesus Christ’s first miracles was to create new wine where the guests said that it was good wine due to the customs of men where they gave out good wine when everyone is still sober so that they cannot taste much of the lesser good wine as they became drunk. 

The same goes with the destruction of the temple & after three days be raised up. It’s not just metaphor but actually speaking about Jesus Christ’s resurrection. People tend to look at the appearance and as the temple was still in construction after forty years, they mocked Jesus Christ of His prophecy regarding Himself. For the disciples & followers of Christ that have heard Him said that prophecy & spoke about His death & resurrection, they would understood the metaphors afterwards. As it was about how God now dwells in a spiritual temple that is within the people who believe in Him. It was about how the law of Moses now become dead in the physical but be revived in a spiritual state. Maybe not a perfect analogy, but think of the many system in real life, we use to have a lot of physical books & now we use electronic devices. Does it mean that those authors or books no longer has any use? It still speaks to the people who read it no matter the state of the physical. God’s law was always about to be life giving & for people to live harmoniously in a society, to protect the weak & walk in righteousness. However the synagogue in Jerusalem at that time was not in a righteous state. 

The law has be misused by abusive teachers of law & Pharisees to oppress the believers of God & those who are poor and needy. God hate the wicked & the hypocrites & our Lord Jesus Christ did not hide nor shun from those confrontation. Even better, He did not argued nor debate with people nor try to find anyone to be His witness; He Himself, His deeds of miracles & His righteous way of life is His testimony, moreover, He knows what is in everyone. For whatever is in a heart of men, God knows. 

Let this be an exhortation for us as followers & disciples of Christ that all glory belongs to Christ and that salvation is a gift of grace from God that none can earn. We have to share the true gospel, that is the sacrifice of the perfect lamb of God & the resurrection of our Lord Jesus Christ for our sins in order that we may be saved. 

