---
layout: post
title: John 4 - Worship God in spirit & in truth
tag: John
---
Reading John 4 this time has another perspective that I’ve never seen before, it feels as if the Samaritan woman was challenging or trying to compete with Jesus Christ regarding the religion & spiritual knowledge. This rooted out from the generational strive of the Jews & gentiles over the land & there’s a deep divide amongst the people living near the land of Jerusalem. Idolatry & adultery almost always goes hand in hand as it also rooted out of greed. The woman from Samaria was amazed by Jesus Christ’s knowledge regarding her state of relationship & that became the opening point of her heart to receive the good news. This was done so gently yet so firmly that the woman did not get shamed nor traumatized by the revelation from our Lord Jesus Christ. 

The gift of revelation or prophecy was never to shame someone but to open their hearts so that they can be at awe with God & then receive the good news gladly without trauma. Afterwards, Jesus Christ told her about the origin & the future method of worshipping our Father. The worshipping at a localized physical temple or geographical location no longer holds any significance though it still provides some historical benefits to help people be engage in the reality. The methods of worship has been superseded with a new way which is to worship God in spirit and in truth. 

Our Lord Jesus Christ revealed to a gentile that He is the Messiah & she believed but she also doubted, it’s like in a state of finding out & discovering, can it be true? Surely He is the Messiah, right? She leans more to the believing side & trying to find more answers so she spread the news around not caring about how her sins would be revealed too with that action & people started to hear from Jesus Christ Himself & they too believed in Christ, truly our Lord Jesus Christ is the Saviour of the world. Our Lord Jesus Christ continued His mission to share the gospel in Capernaum by healing an official’s son & their whole household believe in Jesus Christ. 

It is a reminder that the gift of prophecy & healing not only serves as gift to minister to people but also a gift to open up the hearts of people to receive the good news of our Lord Jesus Christ, that they too may encounter God themselves & believe with their heart and gain salvation from our Lord Jesus Christ, may our Lord Jesus Christ help us to be a good steward of all the gifts that He has given us. 

