---
layout: post
title: Luke 20 - Worldly vs Heavenly wisdom
tag: Luke
---
The bible recorded the contrast of the comparison in between the chief priests & the scribes that tries to catch Jesus Christ’s fault in His words being unmatched with His wisdom that comes from heaven was a reminder as a humbling experience for them who think that they know it all but in the end their hypocrisy were revealed instead. It reminds me of the scripture that the wicked shall fall into their own nets. 

The parable of the wicked tenants of a vineyard was pointed exactly towards the house of Israel that refused to accept our Lord Jesus Christ as the Messiah and in the end they lost everything & were destroyed. Even in history, it has been repeated over & over again… Even so, we do not rejoice but be grateful with reverence & sorrow for their loss because of God’s love towards them, it’s a reminder that we as gentile outside of the house of Israel are now being grafted in as family of Christ due to their existence. If they who are the original recipients can be destroyed & lose everything that is the salvation, then who are we the grafted in boast about our salvation for it was always God that gave freely & mercifully. We ought to pray for their salvation & only that will make God’s heart glad. We do not do that because of privileges but because we know God’s heart is for His children to be reconciled to Him. Any parent would understand that & only want what’s best for their kids, they would grieved when their kids were going the wrong way & thinking that they know it all & reject the parent’s advice or concern. Most feel helpless & some respond with anger & drastic measures because they care & because they love their kids deeply. 

The whole chapter is like a knowledge or wisdom competition in between the wicked & Jesus Christ, not that there’s any match as they were already unmatched as God is the creator.  Just read about how Jesus Christ answered the questions regarding resurrection, David’s son, who else but Jesus Christ could answered?! These traits of the wicked comes from pride which result in wanting to outmatch God, sounds familiar like the devil. So it is a stark reminder for us to always come to God in humility knowing our place & that this temptation to fall into pride is a slippery slope. We must be vigilant & always focus on our Lord Jesus Christ to remain awake, acknowledging that our salvation comes from the sacrifice on the cross by our Lord Jesus Christ. Nobody earned that. 

Then to put more emphasis on the hypocrisy of the scribes, our Lord Jesus Christ, He denounced them for loving the perks that comes with their titles & positions of honor by the people but live off the widows devouring what’s already scarce for they have no longer income nor strength from their late husbands… It is despicable & it’s not much different in this age now in many of the corrupted churches & ministers that abuse the name of God for their own benefits. Let us be reminded & take this seriously that we who are servants of the Lord always remember the mercy of God & we ought to always help the poor & the needy according to our capabilities. Stay away from corrupted groups & call them out if God has given the courage & boldness, let not this cancerous cells grow any longer but be cut off & destroyed completely for it will always devour God’s resources if it’s not taken care of swiftly. May the Lord give us strength & wisdom. Let us pray for their salvation. 
