---
layout: post
title: John 8 - The truth will set you free
tag: John
---

The scribes & Pharisees were passionate & zealous in their own agendas in terms of elitism & that gave them some sort of access to higher society that they have created & they led others to the same trap as well to increase their influence, so they too will hunt or recruit those who are zealous for God but gullible & prey against those who does not agree with them or their ways. Being the loudest or the largest crowd does not mean that is the truth nor does being the most powerful or wealthiest means that is the true way. Jesus Christ is the light of the world, whoever follows Him will never walk in darkness but will have the light of life. Those who do no believe in Jesus Christ tried to catch Him in order that they can condemn Him, it’s a strange power play dynamic for those who are insecure. It’s not so much different from the way that we see in predatory relationship that they control people thru their wealth, words or physically and cause suffering to the victims physically, mentally, emotionally, psychologically. They are the one that twist the word of God and use them against those who they want to control & gaslighting others into thinking that they were in the wrong. Hence it is important to follow our Lord Jesus Christ & to truly study the word of God ourselves. 

In the chapter, even Jesus Christ was fed up with them “why do I speak to you at all?” because He knew that they were looping in their conversation kept on asking & debating & arguing in the same loop over and over again. He told them again and again but they were just trying to catch Him in His word so that they have a reason to condemn Him of some sin. It sounds awfully familiar to us believers or even in our everyday lives, that’s the trait of dealing with any NPD or predatory or wolves in sheep skin, they will gaslight people & keep on jumping & loop around arguments that never reach a point unless it is to condemn others & pushing the blame to others. Once they have that control, then they let you off & repeat the same pattern over and over again in lives. This is a living hell for some abused victims in this power dynamic relationship and only the truth will set them free. 

Facts are not truth, the truth is what actually happened in the intention of each person that only God knows, the victim themselves know but they need help from others to tell them that they are actually being gaslighted, once they see or notice that, the truth will keep on revealing & they will be set free. This is what Jesus Christ tried to do for those who are being gaslighted in their times. As for those who are still seeking retribution, I hope some find solace in this that is now that you know that you’ve been wronged, the trust is lost, they lost you. Though it may seem that they are doing well or no one else seems to care but know this truth, you know now, God knows and they can never get you anymore because they lost you. You can move on knowing that is their greatest punishment because they lost a true genuine authentic loving person that trusted them. They lost the most important & valuable relationship in their lives. It will always be their loss. They will always be fearing of being found out never a moment of peace and they will always have to hide in their masks. Worse…they will never be able to enter the kingdom of God because they kept on sinning & reject the prompting of the Holy Spirit refusing to repent continuously. That’s their living hell… 

Our Lord Jesus Christ knows how important it is for us to have trustworthy relationship & so He tried to teach us all that the truth is the foundation. He was sent by God and that wasn’t enough for the doubters. Let us be exhorted that Jesus Christ is indeed the truth & the light, to spend more time in studying the scriptures, not just reading it but to also build a relationship with God and a habit to replace these time consumption blocks with activities that grow our spirit with truth. 
