---
layout: post
title: John 7 - Persistent faith in Jesus Christ
tag: John
---

Our Lord Jesus Christ went thru some similar siblings conflicts such as being looked down upon as they were growing up together & spending time together, that kind of impression or perspective would have been ingrained into their mindset & so it is highly challenging for them to believe that Jesus Christ is the Messiah. However they too saw the signs and miracles that He accomplished so maybe in sarcasm or maybe wanting to get rid of Him from their hometown to prevent being discriminated by the Jews in context of how Jesus Christ answered them back “the world cannot hate you, but it hates Me because I testify against it that its works are evil”. It is only natural when people hate the righteous or the one that blow the whistle because then their acts of wickedness are exposed, it means that whatever benefits that the act could bring them vanished & this also hurt their pride so they will always seek to kill those who do that to them or cause them to vanish. 

The way that the Jews were astonished at Jesus Christ’s teaching hinted that He never did really study or undergo any seminary type of training to be recognized as a legitimate rabbi in a synagogue for He learned directly from our God, Father in heaven. The rabbis & the students of seminary learned from the law of Moses & from the patriarchs. They tried hard to follow the law of Moses & teach others to do so but they missed the whole point when they judge against healing on the Sabbath. A healing was done, a man was healed, someone’s life has been restored, a person’s suffering seized, life defeated death, and all they could focus on was it broke the Sabbath law, but they perform circumcision on Sabbath because it’s the law of the patriarchs? That’s how they comply to the rules, meeting all the requirements but missed the mark. Jesus Christ rebuked them to judge righteously with a hypothetical question to reveal their hypocrisy in order that their conscience may wake up & repent. 

The rest of the chapter spokes of how the some people were still stubborn with their unbeliefs, to keep on seeking signs or proof to cause more division or doubts among the believers. Nicodemus who went to Jesus Christ before at evening to understand more about the being reborn in the spirit started to defend Jesus Christ’s rights by using their own law. A man from within the Pharisees or the circle of the higher status in society rose up & spoke on behalf of Jesus Christ. That made me wonder, maybe Nicodemus believed in Jesus Christ is the Messiah & is saved. 

The message of the this chapter is faith countering doubt & unbelief. We as believers of Jesus Christ, followers & disciples ought to take this chapter as a reminder that our faith in God should not depend on signs & wonders only but it is in that even if there’s no signs & wonders, in the mundane menial tasks of cleaning & washing, reading the bible, studying it daily without any fresh revelation thinking that God has been silent, we still believe in Him. When the season seems dry, we still go to Jesus Christ to learn His ways & live it out. It means that even when in this dark world when all that we’ve done is trying to be a good person, to do kindness & be merciful to people, but nothing changes, we still hold on to that faith that God is good & to keep on living out a life that glorify God regardless of return or changes. Do not give up.
