---
layout: post
title: John 6 - Sacrificial love of our Lord Jesus Christ
tag: John
---
This chapter is exceptionally captivating in terms of following Jesus Christ. The illustration & the wordings that was used by our Lord Jesus Christ when He revealed that the crowds & those who followed Him was because they saw the signs that He was doing for the sick, and the other category of crowd that looked for Him because they ate their fill of the loaves. Jesus Christ withdrew from them to the mountain because He knew that they wanted Him to be king just because of the power of healing & miracles. They wanted to use Him not that they believed in Him. Same goes with the ones that looked for Him because of food. It’s a wakeup call to reflect deeper in our hearts why do we follow Jesus Christ? What if someone invited you to their house just to use you and then toss you away when the job is done. How would you feel? How would Jesus Christ felt…when He answered our prayers & we go about our lives again without building a genuine intimate relationship with Him? It reminds me of how heartbreaking & sorrowful one may feel when that happens. I’d feel devastated & hopeless but alas I’m not God & I believe everyone has been used & tossed away before in their lives. God wants a real relationship with us, not just transactional. 

So when our Lord Jesus Christ tried to tell them the best possible way that can lead them to understanding of the metaphorical language of eating His flesh and drinking His blood, they couldn’t understand what Jesus Christ was trying to convey because their hearts were always focused on power, wealth, the matters of the world & flesh. He was actually speaking about believing in Him being sent by God, our Father in heaven. It is to believe in His word & live out His teachings; so, being offended & taken aback by taking Him literally, many left Him. It just showed that they truly did not know Jesus Christ, because when we spend so much time with our friends or family, we know that sometimes when we speak with language that does not mean it literally but a symbolic or metaphor to convey our message. It’s the kind of language that only when one is in genuine close relationship that one may understood the real meaning. Of course His 12 disciples understood but one of them still betray Him for his heart was already set on it from the beginning. 

Makes me wonder & see the character of Simon Peter in a wider perspective, he was once rebuked “satan get behind me” by Jesus Christ,  I wonder though if he lost influences or doubted by others that he maybe the traitor? At the holy communion, so many did asked “is it me?” I can’t help but to think that this revelation by our Lord Jesus Christ was another way to give grace and the chance for Judas to be awakened & stop the betrayal but that’s only for a ponder. As the scripture be told, if not Judas then who will the devil used? Back to the center of the message, our Lord Jesus Christ wanted relationship with us, not just transactional, it’s more than give and take, it’s always be relational. However some have taken it too crookedly that nepotism has been implanted in relationships as well. What I meant wasn’t that kind of relationship, it’s about sacrificial love. There’s no assurance of getting something back. That’s what our Lord Jesus Christ did for us, He died for us all, but He knew some wouldn’t believe even if He did so, the way He still nurtured the twelve including the betrayer, Judas has already proven this before His sacrifice on the cross. He knew, and even so, He loved anyway. 
