---
layout: post
title: John 16 - Jesus Christ sent by the Father
tag: John
---
This chapter is when Jesus Christ prepared His disciples regarding His departure from the world back to the Father. He wanted to make sure that although He will leave them physically but He will send the Holy Sprit, the Spirit of Truth, an Advocate which will convict the world concerning sin, righteousness and judgement. This is the work of the Holy Spirit. The word convict ἐλέγχω in original language is to expose, reprove, prove guilty, examine, in septuagint it’s used as be found to be right, decide, punish. See, God does punish the wicked but He works in His ways and of course the righteous rejoice when the wicked is punished. However we do not take joy in other’s suffering as it is not God’s intention for people to suffer, the wicked are being corrected so that they may live as well but it depends on whether they will continue to harden their hearts & repeat the same sin or to respond to God’s reprove and stop doing it. 

God is merciful and if one looks back, one will realized that God is truly merciful for He gave many many chances before He punished one truly. Just look at the story of Pharaoh, 10 times, 10 chances, in the end he perished because he still did not want to stop & continue to chase after the fleeing Israelites that they have oppressed & killed their male infants. The recording in Exodus shows how merciful God is. Then people would ask isn’t that cruelty to Israelites? Then you would have to go back to Genesis and re-read it carefully again what did the Israelites did as well back to the generation of Abraham, Isaac & Jacob. God has been trying hard over and over again to redeem the whole family line because Abraham also chose to respond to God albeit in a not so perfect holiest way. After all they are all just human beings. 

Back to the chapter, our Lord Jesus Christ cared a lot about His disciples and know that they will be disheartened because of the things to come & they will be chased out of the synagogue, sounds familiar? However He remind them of the illustration of a pregnant woman giving birth soon and joy will come. Their suffering will be temporary and afterwards their mourning will turn to joy, this is in the context of Jesus Christ’s crucifixion on the cross & how they were humbled thru that experience. The most important part is that the Father now Himself loves them because they have loved Jesus Christ and believed that He came from God. That’s the the key of the whole reconciliation & redemption plan. God, our Father sent Jesus Christ, His Son, in order that we can be reconciled with God. When we believe in Jesus Christ, we are in Him and He in us, for He in the Father, the Father in Him, He in the Holy Spirit, the Holy Spirit in Him, we’re in Him, the Father, the Holy Spirit and Them in us. We believe in our Lord Jesus Christ, we believe too in the Father, Our Lord Jesus Christ & the Holy Spirit. 

