---
layout: post
title: John 13 - Love one another as Jesus loved us
tag: John
---
This chapter revolves around following Jesus Christ by doing His will that is to act out what He has shown the disciples by setting an example. There’s a clear directive instruction to become His disciples is to follow His example. As He has loved us, we ought to love one another so that people may know that we are His disciples.  The illustration language of slaves and masters, messengers and the sender, teacher and disciples were to help the disciples or audience to understand the meaning of following Jesus Christ. 

As His time to be betrayed by Judas Iscariot has come, He gave a new commandment, “I give you a new commandment, that you love one another. Just as I have loved you, you also should love one another. By this everyone will know that you are my disciples, if you have love for one another.” 

Jesus Christ knew from the beginning that Judas was going to betray Him, did Jesus Christ exclude Him from the discipleship or the inner circle? Did He called Him out before the time comes? Did He treated Judas with contempt or grudge? He made him the treasurer of His ministry. He included him in his teachings & ministry. He even dine with him as we all know that in the Middle East culture, to dine with someone is a significant act that involves trust & relationship. 

He knew Peter will deny Him three times. Did He reduce the responsibility from Peter? Did He treat him as if that he’s gonna run away anyway, then do not spend as much time with him? In fact, in the scriptures we see that Peter is quite a leader & influential person in their circle. Jesus Christ did not deprave him from the limited time & attention but poured out into him. 

That’s how Jesus Christ loved Judas & Peter. 

They are used as example here because of the context of scripture surrounding this chapter hence they are being zoomed in & put into spotlight, it doesn’t mean that Jesus Christ love others less. It means that Jesus Christ love even the ones that were deemed unworthy. He prayed and interceded for them & He focused on God, our Father in heaven. His love was self-sacrificial. This is what He meant when He said love one another as He has loved us. 
May God help us to be able to love one another as how Jesus Christ loved us, may our Lord give us strength & patience, to always focus on Him. 

