---
layout: post
title: Luke 24 - The Resurrection of Jesus Christ
tag: Luke
---
The last chapter of the gospel of Luke is the climax of story of Jesus Christ’s life on earth as He resurrected from death & ascended into heaven in the end. The first day of the week, the women couldn’t find Jesus’ body in the tomb, instead they encounter two men in dazzling clothes which were called angels in gospel of John. They reminded the women about what Jesus Christ has told them how He will rise on the third day. So they went back & told the disciples, Peter got up and ran to the tomb to see with his own eyes. The moment of grief and sorrow turn to a moment of suspense as the body is not there & I’d imagine his mind racing backward in memories to search for the words & prophecies that our Lord Jesus Christ has said to them, this time he went home amazed. 

An even greater miracle occured when He walked with the two disciples to Emmaus which the disciples told Him the story of how Jesus Christ has risen after His death at the third day according to the women & it was already verified that the body is not in the tomb. Jesus Christ as always, told them how foolish and slow of heart to believe. He taught them & interpreted to them the things about Himself in all the scriptures starting from Moses & all the prophets. What an amazing seven miles of understanding, it must have been the shortest seven miles that they have walked in their lives. So they urged Him to stay with them. When Jesus Christ start to break the bread & share with them with the usual familiar way of blessing & breaking, their eyes were opened & they recognized Him but He vanished from their sight. 

Jesus Christ at this seems like He’s able to teleport, appearing and vanishing without the limitation of space or physical implications. So He appeared again to the disciples & finally they believed that He was indeed risen after seeing & touching Him with their own eyes & hands. Then He gave them the next order, which is to day in the city of Jerusalem until Pentecost, which is the outpouring of the Holy Spirit so that they can be empowered to fulfil the mission of witnessing the good news of our Lord Jesus Christ. Then He was carried up into heaven, a great farewell but not the end of the story as they returned to Jerusalem with great joy. 

We are once reminded yet again that the truth of Christianity is the story of the sacrifice of our Lord Jesus Christ who died on the cross willingly for our sins & then resurrected on the third day. Anyone who believed in Him shall be save & have eternal life. This is the truth & good news that we must know & be able to repeat by heart to everyone that God has given us the chance to share the gospel with. 

