---
layout: post
title: Luke 22 - God’s will be done
tag: Luke
---
This chapter is the crucial part of Jesus Christ’s mission & His life on earth, He knew that He had to go thru a lot of suffering that no man can understand. It is a prayer that not many can live it out “Father, if You are willing, remove this cup from me, yet not my will but Yours be done”. Our Lord Jesus Christ is the Son of God, more often than not, people will always feel entitled to get what they want from God & from men. As long as it’s convenient & beneficial to us, then only we allow some room for sacrifice or compromise. Not our Lord Jesus Christ. This is the only total selfless prayer that I could find in the new testament according to God’s will, ofcourse it’s cross referencing in other gospels, but the point is that only Jesus Christ prayed that prayer & then we learn from Him. 

He knew Judas was going to betray Him, Peter was going to deny Him, His disciples scattered & He would be mocked & beaten just because for speaking the truth, that He is the Messiah. Truth comes with a price and our Lord Jesus Christ has paid it all. It is worthy & it was cruel but it make all the more priceless & valuable for believers of Jesus Christ. I am a sinner that did not deserve the kindness & mercy of God, it was always His amazing grace that save me & my whole family. All that glory belongs to our Lord Jesus Christ. Even so when He knew that there’s so much hardship, He did not give up nor turn away from our Father’s will but continue to walk on this calvary. 

When I experience that love from Him, I knew that it was real & no one could say otherwise but what else can we boast on except that it was Him that initiated the whole journey & mission of saving us? The more I understand about this, the more love that I feel from God. Who else in this world can love us this way? No one but only God our Father in heaven. The chapter is packed with details but one point needs to be emphasize that is the will of God be done. It is yet another reminder again, that we as follower & disciples of our Lord Jesus Christ, we ought to do the will of God, may the Lord help us all. 
