---
layout: post
title: John 3 - That the world may be saved thru Jesus Christ
tag: John
---
John chapter 3 is the heart of the good news that we’ve been encouraged to share with everyone that we have the chance to come in contact with. It is the heart of God, the purpose of our Lord Jesus Christ that He was sent by our Father in heaven to this world. Nothing is more important than that. Imagine a mother having multiple children, even when she’s angry with their disobedience, she would not want anything serious illness or injuries to happen to any of her child without reason. She punished them when they did something wrong morally such as stealing so that they can learn to not do that again. That’s the intention of punishment & reward system in parenting. However when the children got hurt in a slightest way, the mother’s heart melt & ache for her children, she would wish that she’d be able to take the pain & suffer for the child if she can. I think this goes the same with a dad too. Anyone who have loved before would feel the same way and so is our God. Not that God is limited or confined by people for God is the Creator and beginning of all and so are the people who were made in the image of God. 

This is why God sent His son, our Lord Jesus Christ to this world so that everyone who believes in Him may not perish but may have eternal life. Nicodemus dwelt much in logic & science but have forgotten the heart of God & was reminded by our Lord Jesus Christ with this encounter. I’d like to think that this Pharisee who was always confident about his knowledge in the law of Moses & signs or prophecies must have found a new spark in his learning journey for a teacher loves to learn & this desire will always burn in their heart to want to learn more & that was why even though he was a Pharisee, he could not stay away from Jesus Christ & wanted to get to the bottom of the matter. I’m glad he did, because that’s how we get the John 3:16. The key was always for God to teach us His heart & not just to be obsessed with only knowledge in the head. 

Let us pray that whoever that comes into our lives, may the Lord help us to touch their hearts so that they can be feel love from the heart of God thru us when we preach the good news of our Lord Jesus Christ to them. 
