---
layout: post
title: John 15 - Abide in our Lord Jesus Christ & He’ll abide in us
tag: John
---
Our Lord Jesus Christ reminded the disciples & those who were listening, at this moment who are reading the His words & it’s to encourage us to keep on, continuously, never stopping, abiding, in following Him & doing His commandments that is to love one another as He has loved us. Then He said this love is laying down one’s life for one’s friends, who were the friends? The one that do what Jesus Christ commanded them. We are to lay down our lives for our friends. It is an incredible blessings to receive the privilege to have people that we can call friends, those that we can lay down our lives for them. When we love them, we want to be of help & a blessing to them & they (if they are real friends) would do the same for us. That’s the most beautiful relationship & wonderfully fulfilling in lives. That’s how our Lord Jesus Christ wanted us to treat & love our friends. 

In contrasts, our Lord Jesus Christ also prepared for the opposite sides who from the world will hate us because they hated Him first. Why would one hate Jesus Christ? It’s because His teachings & truth offended them or reveal their bad sides in other words, He revealed that all are sinners. The Pharisees could not handle it & instead of lowering their egos or performative works, they kept on persecuting Jesus Christ. It will not be much different for the follower of Jesus Christ. So when we accepted our Lord Jesus Christ as our Saviour & Lord of our lives, there will be inevitable transformation that our ex-friends that we use to hang out with that could not accept it & be offended, they may mocked us, slandered us, be sarcastic to us or criticized us or attack us, but take heart in this, they hated the Father in heaven. We should not let that affect us too much & try as hard as it may sound to focus on our Lord Jesus Christ & build relationship with Him & those who love God. Those who love God are our friends. 

May our Lord Jesus Christ help us to keep on abiding in Him, continuously, daily, every moment in our lives. 
