---
layout: post
title: John 17 - Oneness, wholeness, completeness in God
tag: John
---
This chapter is the most beautiful chapter in the whole bible in my own experience. The wholeness & completeness of how our Lord Jesus Christ wanted to convey brings so much hope & that is the ultimate goal of knowing God. Human beings are created to belong, there will always be that sense of belonging that we all crave & when that need or desire is not fulfilled, it creates an empty void where people tried so hard to fill it with various things or hobbies or habits just to avoid the void. We all feel it, we all know it but there’s no real solution that comes from human. Only when we are connected and we feel belong to God that when we feel that oneness or connection with God, only then we feel that sense of belonging and security. 

Every human being is seeking for something, even when they do not know that they are seeking, chasing after things & relationship but in the end that root out from that void. God has a solution, He gave our Lord Jesus Christ, His only Son to the world to save us from that void. We only need to accept Him, believe in Him and then we are saved from that eternal damnation or hell or void that never ends. Thru Him we will have eternal life as in there’s life continuously. We’ll never thirst again because He is water of life, He is life. We do not belong to the world but we belong to God & as long as we stay in the world & refused to go to Him, we will always have that void. 

So this chapter is a great reminder for us to always stay connected to God, how? Read the Holy Bible, read the four gospels, read the words that Jesus Christ has spoken to us and live it out. Change our behaviours & repent from the sins that God hate, not because that will earn us anything, but it is so that the world may know God, that we are His disciples & that we do what God said because that is the response & actions that flow out from the heart in what we believe in. Salvation is not earned but given, discipleship though, needs work. Just like an infant when they grow up to become a teenager, they are not satisfied of being fed anymore, only a purposeful life gives the satisfaction that they need to be healthy in mind, body & spirit. 

So after accepting the salvation, we do not stop there, we continue to learn in life, whatever that life throws at us, we respond by however we know how but in terms of oneness with God. It is doing His will when a choice appeared before us, to choose life, to choose mercy, to choose righteousness & love. It’s not escaping nor praying away the obstacles, of course if God allows that to be moved then it is also one of the solution, but what if God does not remove that mountain? Then we keep on keeping on to stay focus & fix our eyes on Jesus Christ, for suffering in the end produces character. We all know that is true & inevitable only thru suffering that a righteous leader is made. It is not born, but it is made thru all the suffering that the world has given them. 

Our Lord Jesus Christ went thru it the suffering too as a human being. Yet, He was & still is One with God, our Father, our Creator who made us all. He set an example of how to be one with God, to be of the same mind, heart & will with Him. One doesn’t mean that everyone is the same pattern, traits or appearances, but it is convergence in divergence. Though everything is different but it all comes into one goal or one mind to accomplish it in the end. Each and every true siblings in Christ are in one spirit with God that we work towards one goal that is “so that the world may know God”, so that the love with which God has loved Jesus Christ may be in us & He in us. 

I just wanna thank God for this chapter & it has always been my favourite chapter. That wholeness & completeness of being one with God, I can only imagine when it’s my time to be face to face with Him & to just melt in His presence, in His love, finally whole in that sense of belonging in such close proximity or even without any distance at all… May our Lord guard us all so that we can glorify Him in the world. 
