---
layout: post
title: John 10 - Salvation thru believing in Yeshua, the Messiah
tag: John
---
There is only one way to gain salvation and that is thru believing in our Lord Jesus, the Messiah; sent by our Father in heaven, the almighty God, the Creator of all creations. There are no other ways & if someone told you that you can be saved by your deeds or good actions, beware for this is deception & beware of becoming a thief and a bandit. This is in the context of salvation by faith in our Lord Jesus Christ, it doesn’t mean that being kind, righteous, just or following rules are bad & wrong, it just means by being all that perfect still cannot earn the eternal salvation. Jesus Christ is the gate. 

> “I am the gate. Whoever enters by me will be saved and will come in and go out and find pasture. The thief comes only to steal and kill and destroy. I came that they may have life and have it abundantly.”

Our Lord Jesus Christ truly love the Father & the sheep, in this case, the nation of Israel, the people of Israel, the Jews, even the teachers of the law who believe in Him. The other sheep that do not belong to this fold, which are the gentiles, meaning those who are not a people of Israel, not a Jewish. These too, Jesus Christ will bring them also & so there will be one flock, one shepherd, Jesus Christ is the Shepherd. He was the one that laid down His life for the people who believe in Him because of our Father’s desire & heart to save us and give us life for we are all His creation. However the condition is to believe in our Lord Jesus Christ and accept Him as our Saviour. 

Whoever that does not believe in ur Lord Jesus Christ does not belong to His flock, that includes the one that believe in Him but do not act on His words nor live a life that follow His teachings such as being just, righteous, kind, merciful, loving… The Jews could not accept that Jesus Christ was sent by God, the Father so they kept on using this point to reject Him & even reject all the good works of the Father, it’s an irony that it works both ways. They reject the gate & so rejected the good things inside, in turn, they were rejected even when they met all the requirements which is their good works & rituals, as they did not meet the condition which is entering thru the gate : believing in our Lord Jesus as the Messiah. It is saddening. 

This chapter is about gaining salvation thru believing in our Lord Jesus as the Messiah. May God reveal to all His sheep & let us pray for their salvation. 
