---
layout: post
title: John 1 - Jesus Christ the Word, the True Light, the Messiah
tag: John
---
The word “Logos” start from the beginning & was with God, and the word was God. This word now has become flesh, the source of life, the true light that shines in darkness, He is our Lord Jesus Christ. The law was given through Moses, grace and truth came through Jesus Christ. John baptized with water, Jesus Christ baptized with the Holy Spirit. In this connection or contrast, from customs, water is for cleansing, it’s needed everyday, once we dirty our hands, feet, mouth whatever part of body or utensils, we use water to cleanse it. John was the one that prepares the way for the Lord to cleans e the people of their sins continuously, externally & so he kept proclaiming the message of repentance. 

Our Lord Jesus Christ baptized with the Holy Spirit which remains in a person heart, internally not just externally. The Holy Spirit convicts people’s hearts & speak to their conscience but if people harden or make heavy or make dull their hearts & reject the Holy Spirit, then the Holy Spirit will leave them. It is demonstrated in King Saul’s life & how King David prayed Psalm 51. This chapter recorded the beginning of the ministry of our Lord Jesus Christ which were tasked by first, John the baptist to prepare the heart of people & when our Lord Jesus Christ started to preach & teach, they are ready to accept Him. I’d like to imagine that the water baptism is like a metaphor of cleansing all the dirt away from the eyes of the heart that Jesus Christ be revealed to them. For John preach the law of Moses and much more that is the kingdom of God is at hand & directed to the heart. If one cannot accept that, how else can they accept Jesus Christ? For our Lord Jesus Christ teach always from the intention of the heart & rebuked hypocrisy. 

Jesus Christ is the lamb of God, the perfect sacrifice who takes away the sin of the world! This is the center of the message which is also the heart of Christianity. When He called Simon, son of John, Peter & his brother, Philip & Nathanael, they followed Him because of their faith in Him. They already understood in their hearts at some level that our Lord Jesus Christ is not just some common rabbi. I’d like to invite you readers to think about the time when God spoke to your heart & you decided to follow Him truly from the heart, which you were aware at some level but haven’t truly fully understand yet, think back about that moment of how you responded to God & let that beginning become a source of life that you can draw from when the world becomes too much. As for those who haven’t yet, I pray that God call you by your name & speak to your heart that you may encounter Him personally that no one can tell you otherwise. May that be that strong foundation of faith to begin your rebuilding of relationship with God intimately. 

