---
layout: post
title: John 14 - Promise of Holy Spirit
tag: John
---
Somehow the disciples particularly Philip, was in doubt or wanted to understand more about our Lord Jesus Christ after He said by knowing Jesus Christ, they also know and have seen the Father. Our Father in heaven, is in Jesus Christ & Jesus Christ is in our Father, they are one and this chapter introduce another person, that is the Holy Spirit, the Advocate, Comforter, Helper. The first condition is to believe in the Lord Jesus Christ. Then do the works that He did, in fact greater works than those works because Jesus Christ was going to the Father. That means that the disciples continued the works of healings, casting out demons for the sake of glorifying God in order that people may believe in Him. 

The next level is about love, not only mere believing but with actions of keeping His commandments, that is love the Lord your God with all your heart and with all your soul and with all your strength and with all your mind and your neighbor as yourself. Then He will give us another Advocate, Holy Spirit to remain with us and be loved by the Father & Jesus Christ Himself, He will also reveal Himself to us. Holy Spirit will teach & remind of what Jesus Christ has said to us, that’s why it’s so important to first, read the word of God, for it contains the sayings of our Lord Jesus Christ, particularly the four gospels in the New Testament! Then only Holy Spirit will teach us & remind us. 

Let us be encouraged to start and continue to read the Holy Bible & seek understanding from Holy Spirit for He will help us & do not be afraid but receive the peace that our Lord Jesus Christ has given to us, if there’s doubt in certain scriptures or doctrines or controversies, always go back to the word of God & study them within context after praying for Holy Spirit to teach us. 
