---
layout: post
title: John 19 - The crucifixion of our Lord Jesus Christ
tag: John
---
There were at least three scriptures from the Psalms were fulfilled in this chapter thru the crucifixion of our Lord Jesus Christ on the cross. 
> Psalm 22:18 “18 they divide my clothes among themselves, and for my clothing they cast lots.” 
> Psalm 69:21 “21 They gave me poison for food, and for my thirst they gave me vinegar to drink.” 
> Psalm 34:20 “20 He keeps all their bones; not one of them will be broken.” 
It was the day of Preparation before Sabbath, where the Jews were busy preparing for the next day as their law required that they do not work on the Sabbath, as commanded by the law of Moses to worship the Lord. Some has twisted it to the point that life became less important and to follow the rules by all means super-cedes a wellbeing of another life. This was one of the matters that our Lord Jesus Christ tried to warn them & to correct them so that they know mercy triumphs sacrifice. 

In this chapter, the Jews showed no mercy at all, they wanted to crucify an innocent person just because they could not stand it when they were being corrected by our Lord Jesus Christ, it is not much different with those who are against God today. When we correct someone even with love & gentleness, scoffers and fools will not listen but will persecute those who are righteous. All these, our Lord Jesus Christ has warned the disciples that followed Him and us as well by reading the Holy Bible. 

Look at how Pilate, a gentile tried to released Jesus Christ the first time, but he did not persist because of how the Chief priest and the Pharisees threatened him by using Caesar’s name thru saying that Jesus Christ proclaimed Himself as King of the Jews, this is a perfect example of how the Jews used manipulation to make something happen in order to reach their own goal for their own benefits. It’s saddening because they were waiting for a Messiah, He was right in front of them, and they missed Him & killed Him because of their unbelief. 

Our Lord Jesus Christ is indeed powerful & can control supernaturally but He did not use that to escape. He went thru the whole process of suffering for our sake to give us, all human beings, a chance to reconcile with our Father, our God, our Creator, the Maker. We only need to believe in our Lord Jesus Christ and we will be saved! 
>Romans 10:9 “ because if you confess with your mouth that Jesus is Lord and believe in your heart that God raised him from the dead, you will be saved.” 

Our Lord Jesus Christ went up the cross willingly thus the scripture was fulfilled. Many of the Jews saw the burial of Jesus Christ because it was nearby the city of Jerusalem. It was nearby because it was the day of Preparation, the Jews could not go far because they obeyed the rules of Sabbath. That’s also one of the evangelism that happened thru His death and the timing was exact, I believe it’s due to the orchestration from our Creator, in order that many can be saved. 

God is merciful & this chapter may seem otherwise, but I believe His mercy lies in wanting to save the world thru His Son, our Lord Jesus Christ. Let us give thanks to God for all that He has done for us & worship Him with all our heart. 
