---
layout: post
title: Acts 1 - Be hopeful in the promise of God
tag: Acts
---
Before our Lord Jesus Christ ascended to toward heaven, He gave an order to the apostles to stay in Jerusalem until the outpouring of the Holy Spirit. When He died on the cross, the followers & disciples must have felt an impending doom that feels like everything is loss, there’s no direction, nothing else matters. However, the resurrection of our Lord Jesus Christ increased that faith in them as now they know that all the words that they have heard before are all real & happened in real life. 

When people lose direction in lives or there’s no purpose in their lives, it’s common to fall into depression & hopelessness, so our Lord Jesus Christ kept on remind the disciples of His resurrection before His death so that they can stay on course. Even so, when panic strikes, people reacted differently, fight, flight or freeze. This time when Jesus Christ ascended before their eyes toward heaven, they were all frozen in awe, but they remember now & they have grown spiritually so they wait in Jerusalem following the order of Jesus Christ. 

Peter rose up and took the lead amongst the brothers & sisters around 120 people at that time and cast lots to appoint Matthias as chosen by God to take the place of the apostles that Judas left. I like that now Peter’s prayer is different from before saying that “Lord, You know everyone’s heart. Show us…” He has been transformed from the inside, no longer self-confident with assurance or rather arrogance to think that he knows it all but to pray for God’s will to be revealed. He no longer relied on his own judgement but on God, and God answered his prayers. 

This chapter I pray, let it be a comfort to those who feel lost in this lives, not knowing where to go or what to do or maybe the future seems bleak due to the circumstances or evil of the world, know this, that our God knows & to not lose hope in God. May God increase our faith in Him & help us to keep our eyes & trust in Him wholeheartedly. 
