---
layout: post
title: Acts 14 - For the sake of Christ
tag: Acts
---
Now continue from the previous chapter, Paul and Barnabas kept on going to the Jewish synagogue in Iconium and spoke about the good news of our Lord Jesus Christ’s gift of salvation. They continued to speak boldly and gave testimony. It’s especially harder for Paul as he was closely associated with the Jewish synagogue’s office and now being viewed as turning his back on them, he’s been seen as betrayer, crazy and ungrateful. I imagine he had to give up all that he once built in the Jewish community, that he had to start from zero or even negative. Still, he did it anyway, he did not give up, no one else believed in him except God and Barnabas. They went that far for the sake of Christ to spread the gospel to the people that might reject them and some even to the point of hatred to kill them. In fact, Paul was stoned by the crowds who were manipulated by the Jews. 

The crowds that still think that Paul & Barnabas were some false gods from the Greek mythology speaks a lot of how deep the mind-control or brainwash from the false religion runs in their veins. It’s fairly common for new believers of Christ as converts with mixed thoughts and habits as they were taught & brought up that way, all the neural pathways in their brain and muscle memories have the ability to just put them into auto mode. Some don’t even realized it hence the need of reading the Bible daily to rewire the brain & mind back to God’s ways and righteous path. God’s grace is enough for each and everyone that struggles in this battlefield of mind. No one is left alone to fight this battle for God will hear our prayers when we cry to Him for strength and perseverance to overcome anything that we know is sinful and not pleasing to God. 

However, please do not take this as condemnation, you are allowed to enjoy life in sinless ways that God has given to you. Why then if not, He created cute animals and we love it naturally from our hearts when we see something so cute? How is it that we’re able to feel that joy or pleasure when we see some scene of nature in the world, and how can rainbow be so beautiful and captivating? How is it that we feel all this joy when God do something like that to paint that rainbow in the sky apart from the scientific reason? How is it that the chirping of the birds, the rain in the storm, the thunder that growls lowly could calm our souls and that all is well? It all points to God because He created all that and that is how we know He is God. 

So in a sense, Paul & Barnabas were enjoying their mission trip in a deeper joy that could not be found else where. It can only be felt thru the experience of the persecution that comes for the sake of Christ and not for self. Have you ever felt that rush or strength that comes from your heart when you want to do something for someone you love or when you see someone weaker that needs help before you? It’s much greater than yourself, much stronger and it almost feels more urgentful than fulfilling your own needs at that time. Of course this world now is much more complicated that we are more cautious when we want to help and we have been wired that way because of the exposure of scams. However have you ever notice though before you know all those scams, you were so very willing to believe and help others? That kindness that came so naturally from the heart without much thoughts in emergencies. For Paul and Barnabas, to them everyday is emergencies because of the burden they felt for people’s souls to be saved. They wanted for everyone to just believe in Christ and worship God! That’s all they could think about and I think it’s from the Holy Spirit for they gain nothing but joy for the sake of Christ when people believe in Christ. 

Let this chapter be an encouragement and exhortation for believers & new believers and non believers to trust in God and maybe to open the mind or heart to God that He is worthy to be worshipped and to be loved for He love us first. 
