---
layout: post
title: Acts 12 - Justice & deliverance during persecution
tag: Acts
---
During the church’s expansion where the gospel was spreading, there were much persecution and the apostle were constantly in danger of being killed or imprison. James, the brother of John was killed with the sword while Peter was imprisoned by King Herod. When the church prayed fervently to God for Peter’s deliverance, God sent an angel to freed him. The guards who captured him were put to death by Herod and this is an example of a terrorist and evil tyrant. 

King Herod was not a good leader at all, in order to please the Jews, he’ll kill innocent people, and when things did not go his way, he killed those who trusted him and worked under him. Herod was a narcissist and a charmer, all but his own selfishness. He was puffed up when the people of Tyre and Sidon came and asked for reconciliation and the people kept shouting the voice of a god and not of a mortal. He wanted to take the place of a god and he thought that he was powerful because he could do whatever he pleases, alas he was struck down by an angel of the Lord and was eaten by worms and died. 

It is comforting because justice was served but it is not for gloating but to give thanks and praise God for being just and deliverance from such terror. It is natural to feel glad that the worst is over but again it’s very important to direct that gladness towards God by praising God and giving thanks to God. The tyrant killed James and the guards then stole the glory of God. He did not have a good ending. The wicked was punished and justice is served. The word of God continued to advanced and gain even more people for Christ! 

Let us take comfort that even though there are persecution while doing the Lord’s work for the sake of Christ, know that God is just and He will protect and deliver us from harm for His sake & glory. 

