---
layout: post
title: Acts 4 - Follow & listen to God over people
tag: Acts
---
First, the context in this chapter is about preaching the gospel of our Lord Jesus Christ and not some personal or any kind of decision making thru prophecy. Both can be true at the same time, prophecy comes from God, the Holy Spirit helps us in decision making too, and thru dreams or visions God shall cause people to see as well. This chapter is not about that. It is about when the Sanhedrin council forbid Peter to preach, heal & do miracles in the name of Jesus Christ from Nazareth to stop the spreading of the news to other Jews in fear that they will convert to follow Jesus Christ. As opposed to God’s will where God sent Jesus Christ to save the world by turning people away from wickedness & to receive His salvation, our Lord Jesus Christ commissioned the disciples to go out and preach the gospel. 

Peter cared more about fulfilling God’s will and prayed then continue to preach, heal & do miracles in the name of Jesus Christ. It wasn’t because that he was prideful or vengeful but he was focusing on God’s mission and he cared more about what God had to say or how God sees him than men. It’s an amazing transformation for it was written that he denied Jesus Christ for fear of what men will do to him, now he preached boldly and continue to do so even after being captured or threatened not to preach, heal or do miracles in Jesus’ name. 

God blessed them with many more souls, added daily to their congregation as they continue to pray, eat, live together in one mission to spread the gospel of Jesus Christ. They sold fields and houses to share with those who are poor amongst them and there was no one in lack amongst them. It is wise to investigate and also to pray for God’s wisdom to be able to discern & be a good steward as there has been cases of deceptions and abusing of funds or resources. The point of this paragraph is that their faith were so real & the power of Holy Spirit empowers them to be able to do such generosity. 

May God grants us all who are willing to be able to preach boldly, to heal & to do miracles in Jesus Christ’s name so that we may glorify God and souls can be saved. 

