---
layout: post
title: Acts 10 - Gospel for the Gentiles thru Holy Spirit
tag: Acts
---
Both Cornelius, a gentile and Peter, a Jew received supernatural messages from our God. Both were praying at the same time 3 o’clock in the afternoon but different day, Cornelius first receive the vision from God then Peter the next day. This is a mission started by God, the Holy Spirit thru supernatural vision in two mortals. This is a breaking ground of the gospel of Christ where Cornelius and Peter obediently followed the instructions they received during prayers in a vision thru Holy Spirit. Peter’s mindset was still very much bound by the laws & the practice of Judaism however God wanted to break that mindset and transform his mind so that the gospel can be expanded for the sake of salvation of mankind. Cornelius clearly followed Judaism and his households also followed the rituals of Judaism. God cared about them & gentiles so much so that He intervened thru angels and visions so that they can receive the gift of salvation from our Lord Jesus Christ. The whole supernatural mission trip was initiated & planned by the Holy Spirit then executed by mankind. 
Peter was able to breakthrough by saying this

> New Revised Standard Version: Updated Edition Acts 10
> I truly understand that God shows no partiality,* 35 but in every people anyone who fears Him and practices righteousness is acceptable to Him

This was an awakening for Peter and the disciples of Christ back then, as we all know the strong knit community traits amongst Jews and they were very diligent and obedient to the law of Moses to the point that sometimes, they missed the goal which is righteousness & mercy from the heart. This is not to criticized the Jews but it is to bring their focus back to they were chosen by God, the Israelites, they truly are the chosen one thru Abraham and their destiny is to become a blessing to nations, so here is the fulfillment of the prophecy from God and promises from God towards Abraham. We should be grateful for them but we should also focus on worshipping God in the name of our Lord Jesus Christ not mortal men. There’s no partiality in God’s hearts and this strengthen all the more that neither sacrificial rituals or indulgences can remove sins nor can they save a soul. It is only thru true repentance from the heart and acceptance of our Lord Jesus Christ that one can only be saved. Neither money nor love bombing gifts after a manipulation, crime or abuse without true repentance can save a soul or relationship. 

One who truly repents is one who truly stop doing that same sin over and over again by abusing the grace and forgiveness from God or people. Just ask anyone who have heard a thousand times of sorry from those who hurt them with the same thing over and over again, they will tell you that there’s no trust and it is all a facade, no respect nor true love for the relationship at all, the sorry is just to cover up their sins so that they don’t have to be responsible for it. 

Now back to the context, Peter starts by telling the whole story of our Lord Jesus Christ and how He was persecuted by the keepers of the law. He then spoke of the resurrection of our Lord Jesus Christ who is the one ordained by God and is the judge of the living and the dead. Everyone who believes in Him receives forgiveness of sins through the name our Lord Jesus Christ. That’s it. No sacrificial rituals, no indulgences, but it is thru true repentance and true belief & faith in Christ. Beware of false teachings that leads to deception and futility, may God convict their hearts and show them the true way, that is thru Jesus Christ. May God keep us all from deceptions and lies, for only the truth shall set us free. 
