---
layout: post
title: Acts 13 - Salvation for the gentiles
tag: Acts
---
Barnabas and Saul who was also known as Paul were instructed by the Lord to be set apart for His work. The Holy Spirit spoke to them while they were worshipping the Lord and fasting. It’s yet another reminder for ministers and believers to also set aside time to worship the Lord and fasting if the health status permits to receive instructions from the Holy Spirit. Afterwards they were commissioned for a mission trip from Seleucia to Cyprus to Salamis as far as Paphos to preach all over the Jewish synagogues. They went to their own first, the Jewish community and wanted to tell them the truth, the good news about our Lord Jesus Christ so that they too might receive salvation that leads to eternal life. Paul’s trait of aggressive confrontation in regarding the matters of the Lord, previously was used against the Christian but now it’s turned around in this chapter when he was filled with the Holy Spirit called out on Bar-Jesus, a false prophet who tried to lead the proconsul, Sergius Paulus away from the truth. This is yet another example of God’s redemption plan on someone who was deemed too far gone for his hands were stained with the blood of the Stephen and those he had wrongly persecuted in the past. 

True repentance can be seen as a drastic turning point in some people and Paul was one of it, this might throw some people off as they would think that he was just faking it, yet he did not focus on that. He was fixed on one goal that is to run the race of his life for Christ. He did not measure daily on the trust that was regained but he just kept on doing what he believed and had faith in. Some people gave up halfway because they could not regain back what was lost especially in relationships where people tried to reconciled by mere talks and love bombing expecting the easy way out, and when the people they tried to reconciled to could not trust or respond back in ways they expected, they gave up and drop the act, all the masks came off and then they slander against the people whom they have hurt in the first place and enforce the “forgiveness” on them, portraying themselves as victims. In contrast, Paul spent his whole life time doing that without expecting that, he just did it for Christ. That’s true repentance. He tried his best to win over his Jewish brothers and sisters and when they rejected him over and over again, God sent him and Barnabas to the Gentiles. 

Another person whom I respected more than anyone in the Bible except our Lord Jesus Christ of course, is Barnabas. He believed in the underdogs and true second chances, he did not give up and nurture Paul, kept him company until he was strong enough to be on his own and a leader of his own mission trip. No one dared to take Paul in after he converted as he presented drastic transformation and people was afraid that he might just be a spy or turn on them. However, Barnabas took him in and Paul let the history proved his true repentance. 

Back to the context of this chapter, the gentiles was always seen as unworthy of anything related the God of Israel, the God of Abraham, Isaac and Jacob, who is the same God that created all living creatures, the Father of our Lord Jesus Christ, who is now seated at the right had of God reigning together with God. It was an amazing, wonderful good news to all gentiles that this reconciliation with God thru our Lord Jesus Christ, that whoever believes in Jesus Christ will receive this salvation and the gentiles were glad and praise the word of the Lord. It is a stark reminder and exhortation for myself and believers of Christ that God is so good, for accepting us and giving us the chance to receive His salvation. I give thanks to God for our Lord Jesus Christ and praise His name for giving me and my family salvation, I too give thanks to God for all that has been saved and all that will be saved as. Praise our Lord Jesus Christ. 
