---
layout: post
title: Acts 2 - Fulfillment of the Promise of God
tag: Acts
---
Our Lord Jesus Christ promised that after His ascension, there will be an outpouring of the Holy Spirit & it happened in during the Pentecost when the disciples & many others were gathering in Jerusalem. He gave an instruction the disciples to stay in Jerusalem to wait upon this promise to be fulfilled and they did. 

Peter and the other apostles then rise up to speak in order to correct those who thought that they were drunk. They must have displayed the behaviours that were quite abnormal for a sober man else why would they think that they were drunk. So Peter corrected them & quoted from the old testament, for them at that time there’s only one testament which the Jews were very familiar with. For example, like the Sunday schools program that kept on repeating the stories of David & the Goliath, Noah’s ark, Moses parting the sea of reed etc. Just a quote and people who attended the schools would know the whole story and the principles or the background & culture around the story. That was how Jesus preached and Peter followed the preaching of Jesus Christ to teach what he learned. As Jesus Christ taught them more about the scriptures, they now understood the illustration and metaphors from the scripture point to Jesus Christ. Peter preached the same way to pull in the scriptures of Joel & David from the old testament, then proclaimed the crucifixion of Jesus Christ, then God resurrected Him on the third day. 

When the people heard the connections of the scriptures pointing to the Messiah, suddenly they understood as their eyes were opened after the supernatural event from the power of the Holy Spirit. They believed & was pierced in their heart for they realized now what they have done. The most beautiful thing is that they asked “What should we do?” this means that they truly were heartbroken and wanted to do something to correct it. No longer shifting blame but to look for solution to rectify it themselves. God is so merciful that He gives people chances to repent in order to receive His salvation that was already given freely but rejected. So Peter told them to repent & be baptized in the name of Jesus Christ so that their sins may be forgiven and receive the gift of the Holy Spirit. 

Imagine this, if we receive a gift, but we never open the wrapping paper, putting it at the corner of a shelf. The gift is already given by the giver, the receiver did not respond by unwrapping the wrapping paper, they don’t even see what’s inside of it but instantly rejected the gift because maybe the wrapping paper’s color is not attractive enough or maybe it feels light. These are all base on assumptions, appearance and not the truth. That’s why it’s important to open up the wrapping paper then see & know for ourselves what is the truth. 

Hearing with the heart, in short humility leads to repentance & becoming one with Jesus Christ, to live according to His teachings & we will receive the gift of the Holy Spirit. The gift of the Holy Spirit is eternal life & power in the sense that it will produce the fruits of the Holy Spirit. 


>New Revised Standard Version: Updated Edition Galatians 5
>the fruit of the Spirit is love, joy, peace, patience, kindness, generosity, faithfulness,* 23 gentleness, and self-control

When we look at these traits, do we not see that this is what a peaceful society looks like? This was what was described in the lives among the believers after the Pentecost. They were able to live together with harmony & caring for those who need it accordingly, generously, praising God and having the goodwill of all the people. Then, day by day the Lord added to their number those who were being saved. That’s the kingdom of God on earth. May our Lord Jesus Christ help us & the Holy Spirit empower us to receive His gift so that we may glorify Him. 

