---
layout: post
title: Acts 8 - Gospel of Jesus Christ spread under persecution
tag: Acts
---
During the early church days, the persecution were very violent & aggressive, as Saul’s passion & zeal for the law of God though in a distorted way overtaken the civil rights of human & blind him of being merciful. The believers were put into prison however the gospels spread further more into the land of Samaria. 

At that time there was a magician, Simon who was infamous and I’d say rich in the sense that people gave him money for his performance. When the true power from God came into his life, he became envious and his livelihood & influence depended on magic was threatened. So he followed them appearing to be a believer but his heart was not right, his only intention at the time was to get what he desired, the power to gain more popularity & riches. It was all for self-glory. So when Peter directly criticized him of his heart, showing that he knows what Simon wanted & was just envious of the power & influence the apostles had, he asked Peter to pray for him. Peter asked him to repent first, then pray to the Lord so that he may be forgiven. It is unknown in this part of scripture whether he did repent or not, because he skipped the steps and just asked Peter to pray for him that nothing of what was said may happened to him. 

Was he afraid because he got caught and wanted the easy way out without the consequences? Was he genuinely in fear of the Lord and ask Peter to pray so that he escape the gall of bitterness and the chains of wickedness? or was he asking Peter to pray so that his silver won’t perish or that he may have part or share in Holy Spirit? It’s quite thought provoking to lead readers to self-reflect as well during study, as it will help readers to understand their own intent and then pray for God’s guidance to help in the struggles. The answer is not the end, it doesn’t matter that the state is not at a right position with God now, what matters is the future action that define us. We’re encouraged to keep on focusing on God and His goals, to ask God for help and move forward. What is it that you’re stuck at and kept on looping on? Ask God for help. 

The next paragraph is how the Holy Spirit was directly involve in guiding Philip to help an eunuch to understand the old testament, specifically Isaiah 53, it was talking about Jesus Christ and Philip’s explanation help the eunuch to gain revelation, then he believed and was baptized without any specific rituals or physical set location. There was water there and they did it right there, right then. Philip was then snatched away by the Spirit of the Lord, to us in our language in this era now, it means something like teleportation, did he fly away or just disappear? Well then, the point is the gospel was spreading and believers were added by the power of Holy Spirit under persecution. 

It’s something to ponder about, what kind of persecution are we facing right now no matter how subtly or obviously it is? What about the work of the Holy Spirit during this persecution? Try and notice what other areas that has grown, our perspective will be empower us to not get stuck in the powerlessness of persecution or unchanged situation. Take the small wins & don’t despair. May our Lord Jesus Christ help us and the Holy Spirit guide us & strengthen us during difficulties and hardship. 

