---
layout: post
title: Acts 5 - Do everything for God from a pure heart
tag: Acts
---
Ananias and Sapphira’s death is not much different from Achan in the old testament due to embezzlement, it may seem different but the root is still greed. Their greed cause them to sin against God & give place to Satan in their lives to work against God. The problem is not with the money itself but the motives & intention of their hearts. Ananias & Sapphira appeared to be desiring the praise or being more generous than they truly were. 

Jesus Christ warned against this kind of practising righteousness before others to be seen as righteous, performative & their actions revealed the true state of their heart. This is a reminder for all that we ought to be true to God & if we’re struggling with greed or pride, don’t be afraid to come to God and ask Him for help. “Lord Jesus, I know that I’m greedy and prideful, I want to change but I can’t do it on my own, would You please have mercy on me and help me, Amen”. Never give up, keep on asking and seeking God for help and by His grace, we can become who He want us to become. 

When the apostles were arrested and captured inside prison, an angel of the Lord freed them but with one mission that is to keep on teaching in the temple and tell the people about the gospel of Jesus Christ, so they did. This must have increased their faith & I’d like to believe that it increase their courage as they experienced that miracle so they were all the more enabled and empowered to obey God rather than any human authority, again this is in the context of proclaiming the word of God. May God help us and give us courage and boldness to proclaim the word of God & to obey God rather than the fear of being rejected or persecuted according to God’s will. It is worthy to suffer for the sake of name of Jesus Christ for He is the Messiah. 

Our intention & motives matters most, when our heart is right with God then our actions follow & our lives shows that too, people around us will know that & thru that, God is glorified. 

