---
layout: post
title: Acts 6 - Authority comes with responsibility
tag: Acts
---
In the beginning of Christianity, when the disciples began to increase in numbers, their congregation consist of the Greeks & Hebrews converts although accepted our Lord Jesus Christ and be saved still were imperfect. Society is a place of different people gathering together with different preferences and the social issue did not start during the early church era. It was already there since the existence of society and we can see how Moses listened to his father in law, Jethro, to be able to manage by delegating his tasks to competent people, who fear God, trustworthy, hate dishonest gain. They were then able to share the burden with Moses. It’s not much different here with the disciples of Christ. They too select people according to those traits but this time it’s seven people of good standing, full of the Spirit and of wisdom and delegate the tasks to them in order to be able to pray devotionally and serve God’s words then also be able to better serve the people. 

For this position needs discernment & to be able to understand the needs of the people and judge according to God’s will so that they can distribute the resources fairly amongst them but most importantly not to neglect the poor and the needy especially the widows. In the patristical society, women could not work in a sense as a bread winner in a household, they depended on their father and then their husband. So a widow is truly without income and will really starve to death or may lead to prostitution or theft. God sees that this is one of the human society issues and so His commandments covered that because He is merciful and caring even to the needs of those whom people deem useless or unprofitable. The people must also be merciful with wisdom to be able to judge whether or not it is right & fair to distribute the resources in a certain way. Decisions making were crucial for the benefits of the whole church for they must also be aware of crooks & deceptions lest the resources being embezzled. 

The position comes not only with authority but also responsibility and the risk of being persecuted or the so called leadership mantle. The mantle often suffers slanders and jealousy from others. The words of negativity & criticism often weight down upon the shoulders to those who wear the mantle of leadership. As time goes by the mantle grew heavier and heavier like a rock and sometimes the leader drown with the mantle into the deep ocean of depression. The position is not for own’s glory but it’s to bear the burden with Christ and serve the people. I hope leaders take solace in knowing that even when Stephen had that heavy burden, his countenance was of an angel and in the end were able to glorify God. He was able to utilized the gifts & resources that God has poured into him and did not waste his life nor God’s effort. 

Let us pray that God uses us too to be able to glorify Him according to His will and to give us courage, strength in our inner being, wisdom & perseverance to fulfill this life with all that He has poured into us. 
