---
layout: post
title: John 21 - Restoration & Redemption
tag: John
---
Without Jesus Christ, we are nothing, without God, we can’t do anything. When Peter and the disciples went fishing to get some fish, they couldn’t get anything until Jesus Christ helped them achieve what they wanted. They went out into the water to get fishes with their own might, power, resources, strength and experience but caught nothing. That’s the realization I had when I read this chapter. Without God, I’m nothing, and all that He has given, I do not deserve and from this birth out the gratitude growing into a deeper awe and worship towards God, oh so Holy. In the presence of God, God is so holy that it feels like it’s everything and just want to stay at this moment forever. The first paragraph is to restore our faith towards our Lord that He is able and we ought to have faith in Him, to put our trust in Him in whatever we do in our lives. 

Peter was reminded again of his shame of letting Jesus down, letting himself and his brothers down when Jesus asked him whether he love Him. The agony of shame is humbling most of the time and I’ve come to appreciate it more and more because it acts as reminder to be humble, to see who we truly are without God. However that’s not the point here, what Jesus Christ tried to achieve is to restore Peter & to tell him “I accept you”. He asked Peter to feed & tend His lambs & sheep which indirectly is saying “I accept you, I forgive you, Peter, follow Me and rise up, restore your brothers also”. The last chapter of John is to restore Peter to his ministry & to increase his faith not only in God but also have confidence in the mission that our Lord Jesus Christ has given to him. He needed to hear those three times when he was reminded of his shame for denying Jesus Christ, that he was truly accepted, forgiven & chosen to lead His lambs & sheep. A leader that knows true humility, that though they are made in the image of God, they are not God but need God in their lives. It was then recorded in history, that Peter did fulfill his mission in the best way that he could, in the end was persecuted and killed for the sake of Christ. A total redemption of his life thru his death for Christ. 

When we think that we are too far gone, God is near, just right before us with open arms to welcome us again into His arms. We only need to respond to Him and say “I need You, God, please have mercy on me & help me, Lord”. Let that become a pleading cry from our soul & surrender to Him & be in His presence again. 

