---
layout: post
title: Acts 3 - Miracles by Faith in Jesus’ name
tag: Acts
---
Peter and John continued the works of Jesus Christ when the opportunity rises as they were approached by a lame man who desired alms but they gave him something better. First, Peter healed him in the name of Jesus Christ of Nazareth then realizing that this is from God, he followed them and believed in our Lord Jesus Christ. Then it became an evangelizing meeting or chance to become a witness of Jesus Christ. 

Peter preached about the message of how God fulfilled the prophecy from the prophets, which he meant the old testament and that the Messiah would suffer pointing and leading them to the truth in the new testament era. Then he led them to repentance and said that anyone that does not accept that Jesus Christ is the Messiah will be rooted out of the people. The prophets predicted this Messiah in the old testament, and this Messiah came to bless by turning each of us from our wicked ways. Peter & Jesus Christ preached the same message, that’s righteousness and when people listen to them and follow it, that already is an action of repentance. For example, those who were always stealing or taking advantage of others stop doing it after listening to the commandment to love others as themselves. That’s repentance. 

God did not ask for perfection but He desires that we desires to repent & to listen to Him, Jesus prayed also to the Father and Paul had the same struggles that we want to follow His will but many a times the flesh is weak and drag us back to sins. The point is don’t give up, keep on asking God to help us & commit to Him, believe in God that He can help us to reach the repentance that He desires. Rely on Him and His words, not just mere power of will. 

Back to the context of this chapter, Peter and John evangelized thru preaching the truth of Jesus Christ so that more people can see that Jesus Christ is the Messiah in order that they may believed and be saved. It is about the power of God not about the power of Peter and John, the miracles happened thru the name of our Lord Jesus Christ. It’s very important and crucial for all ministers and leaders to always be reminded too that the things that miracles, healings & success comes from God thru the name of Jesus Christ, not from people. So we ought to give thanks and glory back  to God who is worthy of it all. 
