---
layout: post
title: John 20 - The resurrection of Jesus Christ
tag: John
---
This chapter is full of excitement as Jesus Christ resurrected from death on the third day, early on the first day of the week. Mary Magdalene found out that the tomb stone which was the door had been removed so she ran to Peter & the disciples to alert them so that they can do something about it. Women & men both played a role here, usually women saw something dangerous or harmful, they voiced out & then the men who are physically stronger who has the sense of wanting to protect others will do something about it. It’s a beautiful picture of co-working together in unity but of diversity. What captured my attention is the disciple who reached the tomb first did not went the tomb but Peter went in. Then both of the disciples went home. ? 

Mary wept outside the tomb & she looked into the tomb where she saw two angels asking her why was she weeping, Jesus Christ appeared to Mary in a form that she don’t recognize but only thru His voice & tone calling her name. It’s that fellowship amongst them that cause Mary to be able to recognized Jesus Christ’s voice. It reminds me of the verse My sheep knows My voice. When a person have a relationship with another person, they know each other’s voice as they listen to each other frequently & usually know by the tone of their voice whether they are happy or sad or angry or tired or stressed. Relationship & fellowship matters in the kingdom of God especially with our Lord Jesus Christ. 

After that, in the evening of the first day of the week, Jesus Christ appeared to the disciples when the door is locked, it’s important because this showed that Jesus Christ could walk thru walls or just teleport for a lack of better word. Whatever that was done by Jesus Christ was supernatural & when that happened, the disciples believed except for Thomas one week later who wanted to touch Jesus Christ with his own hands. In that one week, I imagined maybe the disciples had told Thomas but he wouldn’t believe it until he saw it with his own eyes and touch Him with his own hands. Jesus Christ then said blessed are those who has not seen Him and yet believed in Him. Hey, that’s us or the whole lot of us that read the Holy Bible or heard about Him but never came face to face with Him, yet! I think our Lord Jesus Christ is so wise, because that just neutralized the illusion of elitism or any kind of discrimination or false sense of being holier or better than others because they have access to some social circle. Cults are like that. They always bait & lure with that kind of “special” or “elite” or that “no one else but me”. I’m not talking about uniqueness, the context is that Jesus Christ is encouraging us to grow in faith, but the by product or benefit is that it also discourage cultism. 

Jesus Christ performed many other signs in the presence of His disciples back then but it wasn’t recorded, only this part of resurrection that was recorded so that we may continue to believe that Jesus is the Messiah , the Son of God and that through the believing we may have life in His name. I rejoice that our Lord Jesus Christ resurrected & thank God for the life & the words that He has given us! God is awesome & amazing & I pray that we could encounter God according to His will & help us to continue to believe & have life in Jesus’ name. 
