---
layout: post
title: Acts 9 - Redemption thru our Lord Jesus Christ
tag: Acts
---

Saul, who was a Pharisee of the Pharisees that was involved in the murder against Stephen & threatened the disciples of the Lord, putting those believers in prison was transformed by our Lord Jesus Christ when He went and see him on the road to Damascus. He became a believer after he was healed & was baptized by Ananias who was at first reluctant to go because of his history but was persuaded by our Lord in a vision. 

Imagine the horror of Saul when he realized that he was doing it wrong & all that he had done for the sake of God was actually against God, Judas did not survived that, he killed himself due to the guilt and weight of the conscience. Judas couldn’t face himself & consequences of what he did. I don’t think many can… we’ve heard records of murderers or terrorists and those who have committed crime killed themselves the moment they were caught by the police or after they have done the irreversible wicked deeds. Sin has consequences, it always leads to death, either death to the flesh or relationship or ministry or family. 

Did Saul had the thoughts too? If he did, he couldn’t have succeeded because he would need help getting around and there might have people or his followers around him that could stop him. He didn’t eat or drink though, a person who is troubled till the extent of not wanting to eat and drink means that they are giving up on their livelihood, depressed & hopeless, it takes a lot for a person to not want to survive because it’s against how the body, mind & soul is wired. So I thought maybe he was trying to starve himself to death. 

Then our Lord Jesus Christ intervened. Instead of letting him going to waste, He sent Ananias thru a vision! If our Lord Jesus Christ did not do that, Saul would have still be blind or maybe really starved to death. God gave him life when he did not deserve it. Even so, Saul did not abuse that gift, he practically relearn everything about God, that’s the hardest for any person to do. When we learn a skill or become so familiar to something that we can just do it with our eyes closed, it takes a lot of effort and time to unlearn that & to break that stronghold of familiarity and relearn a new skill. How much more then, this is about the foundation of religion that Saul was brought up in? This was the consequences he had to bear for his action, one might say that it’s not fair because he was taught falsely by the Pharisee, maybe that’s why God gave him a change to repent? So that he can choose to turn from this false teachings & relearn about God. 

This is the power of redemption. Death to life. God is patient because He is life, default setting of God is always life but it is up to people to choose to repent & respond to Him. Saul believed in Jesus Christ & chose to be baptized then he became a powerful preacher in his time. This is one of the most miraculous thing that God did because a person’s heart, will & mind is the hardest to change, just take a look at Pharaoh. As the story goes, we know how much Saul who then became Paul suffer for Christ & his letters to the churches became invaluable exhortations to generations of Christians. 

Ananias & Barnabas were exceptionally humble, as they follow God’s will instead of their own or people’s opinions. They were able to accept Saul after he converted and became a believer. Barnabas took him in and nurtured him while he was still a spiritual infant in Christ. When everyone else shun him, Barnabas stood up for him. He believed in Saul because he believed in Christ, he was able to be life giving towards a murdered of Christians as he trust in God. I can’t blame those who do not believe in Saul because trust was broken and it’s harder to regain trust than to maintain the trust that wasn’t broken. They may also be in fear as they thought maybe Saul was just a spy and wanted to catch them all. This is why Barnabas & Ananias stood out. They were like Joshua & Caleb when Moses send the twelve spies to the land of Canaan & only two of them was supportive. In the end, they were able to enter the promised land because of that. 

Then another amazing healing of a paralyzed man who had been that way for 8 years was healed when Peter said “Jesus Christ heals you; get up and make your bed!” After that, he resurrected Dorcas / Tabitha by kneeling down and prayed. These miracles became an opportunity to save more souls in Lydda, Sharon and Joppa. Thru our Lord Jesus Christ, Peter has become someone that was able to face and redeem the mistake when he denied Christ in the past. This chapter is about the story of redemption thru the intervention of our Lord Jesus Christ. I pray that this will become a comfort and exhortation to all that feels that they are too far gone or in hopelessness or depression. May God rise up the despair & help us all to encounter Him in ways that we’d never imagine. 
