---
layout: post
title: Acts 7 - Even so, Proclaim the truth!
tag: Acts
---
This chapter recorded the history of how the high priest, Annas & the council were not able to accept that Stephen proclaimed that Jesus of Nazareth will destroy the temple and change the customs that Moses handed on to them from the end of the previous chapter. Change is hard, it is scary as it always introduce some unknowns in the process and some people resist change more than others. Maybe they were afraid of the unknown, think of how the transformation of operations that were introduced during the COVID 19 lockdowns, there were a lot of unknowns that lead many to fear. I wasn’t exempted, but once it was adapted and becoming more familiar of it, it’s more often than not that the pros outweighs the cons or fear. 

Back to the context of the scripture, Stephen and the apostles, learning from Jesus Christ that the old ways of worshipping in temple is no longer effective as Jesus Christ the perfect sacrificial Lamb has fulfilled the sacrificial rituals. Now the Spirit of God live in all believers, the believers, which means whoever that accepted Lord Jesus Christ is the temple of God. God lives in us now but are not confined by us nor by a physical temple in Jerusalem. 

So in order to help the teachers & the law keepers to be able to see and understand, Stephen told the story of Old Testament from Abraham to Moses and how the Israelites used to kill the prophets of God. In the end, the sharp accusation directly insulting the high priest & the council enraged them and they stone Stephen to death. Even so, Stephen prayed out loud “Lord, do not hold this sin against them”. I believe God heard and answered his prayers because Saul became Paul in the end and he glorified God & redemption from God was recorded in his life thru his serving Christ, the Jews & the gentiles. 

It’s a reminder that we ought to pray for God to transform us by the renewal of our minds according to His will, by reading His words and to help us in our old ungodly habits especially for someone who converted from idolatry. Of course it took some time and still some of the old ways of idolatry stuck like a sticky gum but with the help of word of God & the Holy Spirit, breaking of those strongholds of deception and superstitions became possible. That was my experience as I converted from other religions into faith of Jesus Christ and that’s the best & most right decision I’ve ever made in my whole life. I long for more souls, family & friends to come to Christ & receive His gift of salvation. May our Lord Jesus Christ help us to learn from Him and from the apostles to guide & lead people to God even when persecution & rejection may come. 
