---
layout: post
title: John 18 - Sacrifice of a True King
tag: John
---
This chapter is where our Lord Jesus Christ was captured because of the Pharisee’s jealousy & due to the betrayal of Judas Iscariot out of greed; Peter and the others ran away in times of trouble out of fear; Pilate refused to release Jesus even though he knew He was innocent to please the Jews. Only one person, our Lord Jesus Christ in contrast of these four groups of people, stood firm in fulfilling the will of God. He was praying for this cup to be taken away but not on His own will even though He was the Son of God, but let it be done according to the will of God so that He can please God. Each group failed to please God as they chose to please men/themselves. 

I do not judge them as I thought to myself maybe I would be like Peter & the disciples based on my past experiences, I remember we were camping in the forest, it was dark, my friend suddenly used an eerie voice to look behind me, I did not, ofcourse and ran straight ahead to the light where all the teachers & other friends were there. I wasn’t proud of it but hey I was afraid. See I’ve just shifted the blame to my friend even in trying to justify myself there. I tried to become better though but I don’t know what would happen again the next time a trouble with sudden fear rise up. May God have mercy and help us all.  

The point is, our Lord Jesus Christ is worthy. He fulfilled the mission, He chose God. He didn’t ran away, He asked the guards to let His people go & He took the place of blame for the sake of all mankind. He is the super hero in the history. Superhero stories sells really well, because it’s always someone coming to save the day, depicting hope & joy after suffering, but they were all focused on themselves to glorify their reputation & stature in the society. Our Lord Jesus Christ in contrast saved the day by taking the blame of sins of mankind, a sacrificial perfect Lamb in exchange for our lives, eternally out of willingness on the cross, crucified in the most humiliated way for us even when He did not deserve it but  we all deserve it. That’s His gift of salvation for us, no one can earn that. It was given freely for all mankind, however it depends on whether we believe in Him. 

He has the ability & power to summon angels to battle for Him in times of need, but He did not, He chose to go up the cross willingly. I cannot think or find another love this deep from anyone in the history. Some martyrs did died for Christ but they did not have that power to summon an army of might, so they died, but our Lord Jesus Christ has that power, yet He did not use it. 

Let us give thanks to God, our Father in Heaven, Our Lord Jesus Christ to give us this precious gift of eternal salvation & be reminded that it was our Lord Jesus Christ that chose to give His life for us. Thank You! Jesus! We love You, Jesus!
