---
layout: post
title: Acts 11 - Beginning of Christianity
tag: Acts
---
Peter went back to Jerusalem and was criticized for preaching the gospel to the uncircumcised men which means the non-Jews, the Gentiles. This is the Jewish culture as they put importance in relationship, connection thru a meal. It means a lot when the Jewish sits together and eat together, there’s a connection and their rituals of washing and cleansing is different as it is very important to them. This includes what they eat, unclean animals were not meant for food in the law of Moses that was given by God. The gentiles did not follow those rules so in other words, they also ate unclean animals. That’s also one of the obstacles for connection or relationship in between Jews and non-Jews. The context here though is about not discriminating the non-Jews from receiving the salvation of our Lord Jesus Christ as He is also a Jewish and descendant of Davidic lineage. 

Thank God that the Spirit of God spoke to Peter to not discriminate gentiles from the gift of salvation! It made sense though, human is created in the image of God and no one is exempt from the gift of God. However the outcome lies on the responses from people whether a people repent and accept Jesus Christ or not. So Peter started to tell his supernatural encounters and his visions from God. It amazed me that they were willing to accept and praise God that God has given the repentance that leads to life to gentiles. That’s the gift of salvation, the meaning of eternal life, continuously alive in Christ. That was the beginning of Christianity in Antioch when they first called themselves Christians, the follower of Christ. 

At that time, prophets came down from Jerusalem to Antioch and said that a famine will happen worldwide, so the church shared with all that is needy according to their ability and I can’t help but to just see that this is life giving. It’s not just about spiritually alive or in the far future of the heavenly kingdom to come, it is now also how to live a life that’s full of life in Christ, to be life giving, and to keep life continue to flow. Famine leads to starvation and social issues, but here the Antioch Christians were setting examples as true follower of Christ by doing what the opposite of what one would do, to store up and save for self. Instead they share with others who are in need which leads to life. 

It’s a reminder for us too in this era, that when we see that there’re people suffering from starvation or neediness, we too can lend a helping hand according to our needs after research that it’s legit as we need to prevent God’s resources from being scammed. May God help us to live a life that is worthy of repentance for He gave us life first. 
