---
layout: post
title: Luke 8 - Doers of the word & hope of salvation
tag: Luke
---

There are two important parts in this chapter, one is hearing the word of God & be doers of the word of God. As we listen to the word of God thru sermons, audios, videos, books, we ought to live it out & steward it as God would want us to according to His will, He desires mercy and not sacrifice, gratitude & worship from the heart rather than rigid rules following. 

The teachings of our Lord Jesus Christ always rooted out of love for God & for others even to our enemies. When they need food, we are taught to feed them. This is not just limited by food but do in our own capacity & ability that God has given us. It is not easy but when I think of how I was helpless & God came thru, I can’t help but just to pour out my gratefulness by just wanting to do His will because of the enormous gift & generous kindness with mercy that He has shown me. Suffering & desperation is one of the experience that are invaluable to a person’s heart & journey with Christ as it gives the chance to truly be humbled by the powerlessness & helplessness such as displayed by the disciples in the storm. Our Lord Jesus Christ asked “Where is your faith?” In a similar situation, I too can only cried to God and asked Him to help & be merciful to me. 

Second part is how faith or belief is connected to humility & the healing power from our Father in Heaven thru our Lord Jesus Christ although He is not constraint by it sometimes. The demonized man fell before Him out of fear that he will be tormented but our Lord Jesus Christ commanded the demons to go out of him & he was healed! The point is the demons obeyed Jesus Christ, they know that He had authority & power as God. Then the man wanted to follow Jesus Christ but he was urged to proclaim & evangelized to his city what God has done for him in order that more people will be able to be reached by the gospel of God. God is so good that He only wanted the news to spread so that people may have hope when they heard that there is a God that can help them & give them salvation! 
