---
layout: post
title: Luke 7 - Humility & Faith goes hand in hand
tag: Luke
---
It’s intriguing to see how the story of the centurion progress until the end of the chapter, like a leveling of up of faith in a deeper sense from the heart & spirit that can be measure vaguely but also true with the parable spoken by our Lord Jesus Christ. The Jewish elders told Jesus Christ that the centurion is worthy for he loves the Israelites & built a synagogue for them, but the man himself told Jesus Christ that he is not worthy to have our Lord Jesus Christ come under his roof. Then he proceed to asked Him to just say the word, then his servant shall be healed, Jesus Christ was amazed with his faith & I felt that it is connected to the humility that the centurion possessed. 

Our Lord Jesus Christ was easily touched by compassion & was merciful towards a widow with an only son that has died… that means the widow had everything taken from her…there’s no more support for her in this world that she still has to live in. Our Lord Jesus Christ went to the extent of reviving this man for the sake of the widow that was overcame with grief & God showed mercy not because He had to but He wanted to. God care about our wellbeing emotionally, physically, mentally & socially as well. He will not forsake those who are needy. 

When John the baptist was imprisoned, many doubt even John himself ask his disciples to go and look for Jesus to ask the if He is the coming one, so He reveal that doubt that comes from their heart by saying no matter what a person does, when they doubt that person, they will keep doubting and keep on nitpicking on their faults. The contrast of the woman who was deemed unclean & a sinner, bought an expensive an alabaster jar of ointment to offer to Jesus Christ because He is the only one that accepted her without judgment or rejection. He already knew that she can’t help herself & so He was merciful towards her & she tried to respond with whatever she had from her whole heart for she has experience a forgiveness & kindness that she knew was too big, too heavy, too far gone to be saved. 

There’s no one who seek the Lord that’s too far gone to be forgiven, it’s a solace to know that because even we as a follower of Jesus Christ, we are not perfect everyday, but the key is to always come before God & seek Him, He will not reject us but will help us to clean up our act. 

The message in this chapter is Faith. Faith requires humility, pure heart of belief on Jesus Christ our Lord, humility in seeing the reality who we really are, we must not assume that we are better, nor higher, nor lower, nor worse but as God see us & the truth is we need God daily, every moment in our lives. Let us put our faith in God knowing that He is always faithful & to trust in Him, ask Him to help us to remove the doubts from our hearts & to be strengthened in our inner being thru His Holy Spirit. 
