---
layout: post
title: Luke 18 - Persistent in Prayer & humility in the Kingdom of God
tag: Luke
---
The Kingdom of God consists of praying persistently without losing heart, humility & the most important key is the death & resurrection of the Son of Man, our Lord Jesus Christ of Nazareth’s that was foretold by the prophets & also by Himself while He was still in the flesh. All these is so that people may have life & salvation besides being reconciled to our Father in heaven, our almighty God. 

The parable of widow is not to say that we are able to annoy our Father in heaven into accomplishing our will, but it’s being persistent & faithful in prayer that God will answer the prayer maybe not according to our time or ways but He will answer eventually in the context of justice. As for the contrast of the Pharisee & the tax collector, it’s about humility vs the delusion of following rules & laws without mercy or knowing the heart of God. It is not that we can judge the Pharisee but that it’s easy for people to fall into the deception of meeting all the requirements but missing the goal… People often put external measurable portions on the outside that can develop a false sense of security or self-righteousness shielding their insecurities. That’s when one fall into the deceptive cycle of “I went to church every week, I served & volunteer in church ministry, I helped this & that, I donated this & tithe that”, it’s all “I”s, but when at home with family, they have no mercy nor kindness towards their loved ones, taking them for granted. It’s all for show & performance. Again, it’s not to say that all these are not good, but it must be accompany with kindness, mercy & love. 

The same goes with the contrast between a child having no immediate measurable value to the society as they eat, sleep & mess things up for adults as they are still growing up & developing their social interaction AND the rich ruler that contributes a lot to the society, but the thing is he thought that he had fulfilled all the commandments, in the end the truth is revealed that all those riches are who he is, without that he is nothing because that has become his security instead of God. It’s a reminder that we ought to trust in God rather than external materials or values, it’s not easy but we can be persistent in prayer to ask God for help. 

The last part of this chapter is Jesus Christ foretelling His destiny to the disciples of the tribulations that He will have to go thru but on the third day He will rise again. It’s important to remember that every time when there are trials and tribulations, the battle is won & victory is already guarantee, we just have to join the race & go thru with it relying on God. Let us not lose heart  & continue to persevere in prayers & loving God as well as others. 
