---
layout: post
title: Luke 12 - Be watchful & ready for coming of the Son of Man
tag: Luke
---

Our Lord Jesus Christ warned His disciples against the yeast of the Pharisee which is hypocrisy. The Pharisees were known for their performative religious works & rituals adherence in a strict manner to the point of losing sense & discernment of the heart of God, whom is merciful & gracious towards the needy. They however impose heavy yoke of laws & rituals on others which prevented them from knowing God’s true character & love.

Our Father is a caring and loving Father who is merciful & gracious while being righteous and just, He knows the needs of His children & will provide accordingly hence God encouraged the disciples & those who listen to Him to not worry about their lives, but seek the kingdom of God then food & clothing will be given. 

As servants of Christ, our Lord Jesus Christ exhorted that one must be faithful & prudent in one’s serving & ministry no matter what is it. For those who are already seasoned in serving God, there is a mutual sense of responsibility that one sense in their conscience, we must not ignore that sense and let the hidden pressure to be one of the motivator or driving force to remind us from time to time to be a good steward. I do not mean to say that we must stress our selves out, but to do what is due according to the responsibility that God has appointed us for we are all accountable to God. 

Our Lord Jesus Christ came to bring division & not peace, but certainly not intentionally causing war in the world by militant power or oppression, what He meant was that the world follows the evil ways and God’s kingdom is the righteous way, for those who choose to follow the world & those who choose to follow our Lord Jesus Christ, division is certainly inevitable. However it is not an excuse for debates nor to cause any dissension intentionally. It’s a reminder to pray to God for wisdom & understanding so that we do according to His will & appropriately. Firm in the foundation of the principles of God without violence & oppression of others. It starts with oneself, judge oneself rightly, justly & see what needs to be change or repent then let live the word of God our whole life to glorify God as salt and light in the world. 
