---
layout: post
title: Luke 17 - Faith matters in the kingdom of God
tag: Luke
---

We have heard the story of Jesus Christ being merciful but He is also just & righteous, He doesn’t allow what is wicked to lead people astray. Hence He said it is better for those to perish & drown in the sea quickly than for them to cause one the little ones to sin. Influential power is undeniable effective in leading a group or group thinking, that’s why a teacher’s responsibility is heavier & they receive stricter judgment. However for those who repent even after committing sins against us, sometimes we know that they can’t help it or they are under bondage & if so that they return we must forgive them. We must also pray for wisdom from God to be able to discern between those who are genuine or those who are abusive of the grace & mercy given by God, but I think at the end of day, God knows the heart & He will judge & respond accordingly. After all, He is omniscient. 

Faith like a mustard seed depicts a “just enough” faith, often times we think that we need to increase our faith by divine intervention such as giving us miracles or signs & wonders with the goal to increase our faith as if we would succeed when the probability increase. It is not about math nor logic but it’s about pure belief in God, pure reliance in God without doubt. It was science, math & logic that kept us from having faith in God, I do not say that education is not factual nor is it helpful but in this context we are often hindered from being faithful because we rely on science, math & logic. Those are just tools & gifts from God, not the Giver. God is the Giver of gifts hence the point is to rely on Him & do what we can & ought to do in serving Him but also rely on Him. Then when we have done everything & succeed, we must be wary of being spiritually puffed up thinking that we did something good, for apart from God we could do nothing. So in the end we must give glory to God & give thanks to God for we are only doing what ought to be done. 

Our Father in heaven & our Lord Jesus Christ are very loving & want us to feel loved but we must not let that become an entitlement. Many times people hate Christians because of entitlement, forgetting all politeness & patience we ought to show in a society as if we are royalties. No doubt we are children of God & heirs of the King of kings but it does’t mean that we are entitled for everything. When our Lord Jesus Christ was crucified on the cross, He did not even proclaimed Himself as King but just agree with others that had said so. He did not use His superpowers nor His title as Son of God to remove Himself from that situation as it was the will of God for the sake of salvation of mankind. The story of the ten men with skin disease and only one came back to give thanks to God was to paint a picture that the other 90% of the healed & experienced God’s grace, mercy & kindness, miracles & signs & wonders felt that they were entitled to it & never felt that it was a gift that they did not deserve. The context though may have to do with the people of Israel who refused to believe our Lord Jesus Christ as the Messiah but the foreigner / gentile believed so. 

Our Lord Jesus Christ warned the disciples to beware of false teachings & false prophets who love to manipulate using emotions of fear & awe that comes from exaggeration & meaningless prediction of the date of the arrival of the second coming of Christ, no one knows the exact date except God & it will be obvious when Christ comes again, however there are season as well that the time is near, so when we know that the time is near, it is for us to prepare our selves to be even more vigilant & be ready to get our acts right with God, in the context of post-salvation. If we have faith in God, our actions will follow for out of the heart flows everything… 

