---
layout: post
title: Luke 2 - Faithfulness of God
tag: Luke
---

From the point of view of Luke’s narrative, it started with a census till the birth of our Lord Jesus Christ, the theme mentioned is order, faithfulness of God besides our Lord Jesus Christ’s life from infancy to twelve years old. Joseph & Mary went to Bethlehem for he was  a descendant from the Davidic line. This fulfilled the promises of God towards King David after many generations. 
Luke’s narrative was towards someone who might have been a high official at that time & he clearly included the census in that’s required by the empire at reign in Israel back then. This is an important point to everyone who’s reading because the way that human perceive a saviour & deliverer is someone who is extremely powerful & will use their power to save them from harm or to punish the wicked. However a person is confined or influenced by their own experiences & emotions that comes from the environment or other people, this will cloud their judgement. As history’s been told, it has been proven over and over again that rulers oppressed & over punishes. The power is corrupted. So our Messiah, Lord Jesus Christ was sent by God as a lowly Servant which His life has been ordinarily mundane from following the laws & commandments that comes from God which now we called Judaism. Not only that but they also follow the rules of the empire at that time which is to register for the census. They were not against the government even though that was after or during the transition of the war of the Jews. 
Then there was Simeon, I couldn’t help but to think of Simeon’s encounter when he came face to face with Jesus Christ as a baby. He was righteous and devout meaning that he truly believed in God and must have been reading the old testament talking about this Messiah. How he must have wondered and when the time comes to be face to face with the Messiah, his faith in God increased a deeper level with awe & deep worship towards God after so many years of diligence in doing his duty as a servant in the temple of God. This is what I always meant of how one’s heart is connected to God while serving and not just for show or performance to get approval or for self interest. Serving & worshipping is good, but it is pointless without spirit & truth of God, one that serve without love is just like a sounding cymbal, a lot of noise and hoo hah but meaningless without depth. Pointing attention the the cymbal but there’s no life flowing out of it. 
Jesus Christ’s was no ordinary child as recorded, He could answered questions from the rabbi in the synagogue and they were amazed by His understanding and His answers. Now in a community of childhood, kids have their own hierarchy, unsaid mutual rules for a group to belong to. I do not think that Jesus Christ is the only child in that settings back then, all the other children were there too. We all know the level of social acceptance of a teacher’s favourite student and we all know that a teacher couldn’t resist the attraction of a talented student. So now take that into Jesus Christ’s childhood life in the context of how his social life is with the circle of siblings & friends. Though He was special and talented, His parents were still the authority in His life and He followed their instructions & went home with them instead of staying in Jerusalem. 
It is encouraging to read this in Luke’s narrative in another perspective that before we judge others, we ought to ponder are we even right with God first in the context of our relationship with God instead of only performative external works. Our Lord Jesus Christ came on earth with a mission to fulfill the Father’s will out of love & to provide salvation to those who believe in Him then be reconciled with God. It is only thru our Lord Jesus Christ that we obtain salvation all out of grace & love by the mercy of God.  For those who have suffered loneliness in childhood just because you were different from the crowd, this is comforting as even our Lord Jesus Christ went thru that & that makes it so that one is not truly lonely in suffering.  
