---
layout: post
title: Luke 6 - Be merciful, just as your Father is merciful
tag: Luke
---

Our Lord Jesus Christ not only performed miracles just for performance & to gather more followers, He did it out of mercy & compassion. With this in mind starting out as a cause for everything that He taught & to correct mindsets from following a rigid methodology of rules & regulations, I’d like to think that He hope that all the teachers of the laws & doctrines will not fall into the delusions of thinking that knowing & adhering to the rules & traditions equals to doing it from the heart for the benefits of others & for God. On Sabbath day, it is forbidden to make any preparation of food & to work according to the law of Moses that passed down from Mount Sinai but then the following & adhering has no benefit when it is done without mercy or compassion for others. 

The part of blessings & woes teaching is to kindle that spirit in us to lead us away from doing with an intention of getting something back from this world. For all who have live long enough, we all know that nothing good comes back to us from the world if we put our hope in the world, we will always be disappointed, as a follower of Christ we must willingly no matter how hard it is, to pray hard for God to change our mindset so that we set our hope on Him & put our trust in Him. His words still rings true to this day. With the love for enemies, do not judge others & treat others as how one would others treat them back, this is all a continual exploration of the matters of the heart. If one understands this from the head & from the heart, one would be set free from many troubles in the world because then strive has no longer live in that person. 

We always suffer because we strive to want something for ourselves & it is common because even I have the same troubles. It is encouraging that the disciples & those who were face to face with our Lord Jesus Christ had gone thru the same thing as well that we now have the materials & some path to walk on so that we can follow Jesus Christ’s teachings. One short sentence to sum it all : Be merciful, just as your Father is merciful. By this then people will know who we are, who we truly belong to instead of hollow titles or name tags; for a tree is known by its fruit. 

The whole point of the sermon of our Lord Jesus Christ is to be the doers of the word with a merciful heart, not just by following rules & laws rigidly & missing the whole point of God’s heart. Let us pray that God help us to be merciful as He is merciful & to bear the fruits according to our Father’s heart.
