---
layout: post
title: Luke 4 - Good news for the poor
tag: Luke
---

Our Lord Jesus Christ was sent by our Father in heaven, the almighty God, the one true God to bring good news to the poor, recovery of sight to the blind and to set free those who are oppressed. Before that though He went thru training just like any human being in suffering & the mundane details of any infant that must go thru towards childhood then teenage years & then adulthood. The most supernatural part that was recorded in the scripture was the testing of Jesus Christ by the devil. Note that the devil first question His identity, then tempted Him with kingdoms of the world when He didn’t want bread, finally tempted Him with the word of God when the devil found out that He always used the word of God “It is written” to resist with wisdom & in context. Not only does our Lord Jesus Christ did not debate with the devil nor being led to round a garden without ever reaching a goal or point, He knew God’s heart & His character just like how a relationship works, when we know someone, we know what exactly they are referring to when they ask you to buy bread or milk without being specific about the brand or quantity of it. You know what exactly is wanted when you’ve lived with them for a while. This is the importance of relationship with God, that is to know God personally from the heart. 

Our Lord Jesus Christ knew exactly what His mission is & that He will never be accepted by His own people, the ones that are always studying & keeping the law in the synagogue without truly knowing God’s heart, they met all the requirements but missed the goal. So He came to spread the good new to the poor, open blind eyes, set the oppressed free, not just an ethnic group or a group of people or a elites. The teachers of the laws at that moment when Jesus Christ was speaking to them, we can read from other gospels and other events where they have kept on challenging Him & kept trying to catch Him by His words out of context out of envy & totally out of sense. They were very well versed with the old testament though, so our Lord Jesus Christ used the example of Elijah the prophet that went to widow out of Israel, and cleansed Naaman the Syrian. This is to showed them that even from the old testament it was God’s will that He wanted mercy and not sacrifice! Alas people were always blinded by the teachings of the twisted mindset due to the works of the devil hence it is vital for us to always study & read the bible in our own time & pray for understanding. 

This conclude that the center of this message, the key is that our Lord Jesus Christ came to bring the good news to the poor, that’s who our God is, a merciful & loving God, He care for those who are needy & is eager to open the eyes of the blind, not to lead them to another pit; He wants to set the oppressed FREE, to no longer be tied down with the laws that they think it lead to salvation! It is only thru our Lord Jesus Christ that one can be saved! Again, this is in the context of salvation & not about abusing the grace of God. This is the truth and may the Lord lead us & guide us with His love & wisdom, to help us to also fulfill our mission on earth while it lasts. 
