---
layout: post
title: Luke 9 - Our cross & the Kingdom of God
tag: Luke
---

Here begins the mission trip of the 72 that was sent out to proclaim the gospel into the harvest field. The harvest field means the people who are needy & poor that needs help & salvation also the sinners that can only be saved thru the acceptance of our Lord Jesus Christ as Messiah. This is the gospel, that our Father in heaven sent His son, our Lord Jesus Christ to come into the world to save sinners from eternal damnation & to be reconciled in relationship with our Father in heaven that we may have eternal life. 

When the followers of Jesus Christ were appointed to go on mission trip, they are not to carry money bags, sandals & greet no one, the point is to be effective, efficient and not be idling or stalling in the trip. It also serves as an example that we ought not to overstay our welcome but as long as the house receive us. Then Jesus Christ gave some heads up about being rejected & to encouraged them not to be dishearted because it was actually the rejection of our Lord Jesus Christ. Their main goal is to proclaim the kingdom of God has come near, to cure the sick, lead people to repentance. When they came back from their mission trip they rejoice because of the power & the demons that obeyed them but Jesus Christ corrected them to rejoice that their names are written in heaven. 

Now an expert of the law & test our Lord Jesus Christ about the inheritance of eternal life, Jesus Christ wisely answered Him with questions & turn it around, the point is to help the law teachers to think about it and this kind of interaction will leave an impression not only on the teacher himself but also those who are around them. The key of the message of the parable is the person who is merciful is the neighbor, it wasn’t just about the geographic location nor a title but it’s about when we see someone in need, our heart is moved with compassion just like our Father in heaven & provide actual help or take real physical action in our capabilities. 
Following Jesus Christ also requires whole heartedly without distractions, when it is time to listen to the word of God, pray or just to commune with the Holy Spirit, we put down the non-urgent tasks & focus on Jesus Christ. 

This chapter is a reminder for us believers & disciples of Christ that we ought to be loving God with all our heart and with all our soul and with all our strength and with all our mind and our neighbour as ourselves. It’s to be wholeheartedly & focusing on our Lord Jesus Christ. As we do that, all that we do that flows out of our heart will be align with God’s will. 
