---
layout: post
title: Luke 1 - Nothing is impossible with God
tag: Luke
---
The center of the message of this chapter is the comparison of two different people with two different levels of faith towards God. Zechariah & his wife, Elizabeth were righteous before God, living blamelessly according to all the commandments and regulations of the Lord without children in their old age. Even though they were of old age, that did not stop God’s plan, similar to Abraham & Sarah’s story. Getting pregnant at old age is of fewer probability but it’s never impossible. 

Mary on the other hand was a virgin when the angel appeared to her, it would be common sense for anyone to ask the same question of how can one be pregnant being a virgin? The probability of getting pregnant in an old age woman with a husband is without a doubt higher than a virgin! This is why Zechariah was muted. Mary believed after the angel, Gabriel told her & her response was go and find Elizabeth & then sing a song of praise to the Lord! That’s the faith of Mary, the mother of Jesus Christ. 

Not to mentioned that at an old age without children was a disgrace in the middle east culture & usually the women will bear the shame & disgrace of barrenness, Elizabeth was finally vindicated but Mary on the other hand, shall receive disgrace due to her status of a virgin that never has a relationship with any men but still getting pregnant. 100% all the people in their lives would be skeptical of her loyalty towards Joseph or that both Joseph & Mary would bore the shame that they had physical relationship before marriage. Especially highly challenging for Joseph, his faith, mercy & love for God & Mary were all put to test at once. 

God does not act according to human’s mind but He chose the lowly to perform His miracles, throughout history of Christianity and the scripture, it is one of the trait of God to uplift the lowly & perform miracles for the sake of love & humankind’s benefits in relationship with God. I bet after this experience, Zechariah’s faith increased to a deeper level & his reverence or fear of the Lord is much more refined now other than just performing according to all commandments & regulations of the Lord. It is encouraging to learn from both Mary & Zechariah of their faith in God, so let us trust in God & believe in Him that nothing is impossible with God. 

