---
layout: post
title: Luke 12 - Be watchful & ready for coming of the Son of Man
tag: Luke
---
The kingdom of God as taught by our Lord Jesus Christ is life giving & it grows abundantly but it requires repentance. One of the most important lesson regarding the kingdom of God is mercy & kindness towards the needy. The crippled, the oppressed by unclean spirit, the sick & the poor, they need help from people around them but most importantly from God. To heal the sick & to tend to the needy on a Sabbath overrule the laws of keeping the Sabbath strictly by just following or adhering to the rules rigidly. It is not wrong to follow the rules but it is to be done in common sense. 

The mustard seed & the yeast has one common trait that is growth exponentially, so Jesus Christ use this parable to symbolized the growth of the kingdom of God as well. Following God requires physical action not just by words, nor by connection or social interaction. All these are important to start a relationship but to maintain it is to put in the effort & care constantly into the relationship. A banquet is when there’s a celebration & enjoyment of pleasure for eating & mingling, joining in occasional convenience, they were listening to the teaching of Jesus Christ in their own place but were still doing evil. 

Our Lord Jesus Christ prophesied about His work & His death in Jerusalem of how He will be killed by the people in Jerusalem. The very same people that Jesus Christ wanted to save them from eternal death with a passion & heart of wanting them to repent & to gain eternal salvation, eternal life in Him just like how a hen gathers her brood under her wings but they were unwilling & so they are left on their own but there’s hope because when they begin to accept Jesus Christ with their heart & confess with their mouth, they shall see our Lord Jesus Christ again. 

It is a reminder that we ought to repent from any evil doings & to never give up even when we stumbled or struggled to overcome yet, as God will give us strength & grace to overcome it as long as we are committed to Him. However the first step is crucial that we acknowledge that we are sinners & we accept our Lord Jesus Christ into our lives & heart to be reconcile to our Father in heaven, then our hearts naturally be touched by Him & shall follow His commandments out from our willing heart & not because of threats. 

