---
layout: post
title: Luke 5 - Be compassionate & less judgemental
tag: Luke
---

Our Lord Jesus Christ started teaching the word of God, He did not stop there but also perform miracles where afterwards He called Simon Peter, James and John to become His disciples. When Jesus called them, they left everything and followed Him. 

Jesus Christ’s main trait of ministry is He is compassionate about others’ suffering & He is willing to or even touch a man with skin disease. He never shuns away from the sick & needy for any reason. However there is an initiation first that comes from the man who needed help, he went to Jesus Christ & asked for help. He begged him & said “If You are willing, you can made me clean” When one person is willing to humble himself to see the reality of their situation & admit that they really need help this time then come before God to ask for His help, they showed their humility thru that & here there’s a clear connection of how the saying goes “God opposes the proud but gives grace to the humble.” When the ministry was growing & Jesus Christ’s started to gain more followers & popularity, He would slip away to deserted places and pray. Jesus Christ demonstrated humility in the sense that He did not stay in that popular place to absorb the attention all to Himself but He chose to go back to our Father in heaven and communicate with Him alone. He always go back to the source of life, to connect with God no matter how much the ministry or the people needed Him. It is reminder that as minister & servant of God, we must always go back to the source, that is God for communion, relationship & deeper connection with Him. For all comes from Him & not from people. 

The contrast of the paralyzed man and some men who were thinking critically creatively because of their faith in Jesus Christ believing that He will be able to heal the paralyzed man, obstacles of huge crowd did not stop them, they find a way to go to Jesus. They never give up. As opposed to the scribes and the Pharisees, they were already doubtful in their hearts & they went not because to hear Him teach nor to ask for help but to catch Him in His words so that they can find fault with Him. So here it is reminder that any ministry there will always be three kinds of crowd, there to listen or need help or to judge. May God help us to be the one that is there to be quick to listen. 

When the tax collectors were called to follow Jesus Christ, as opposed to the disciples of John the baptist, it was clear that Jesus Christ did not called those who already think that they are piety to the law, nor those who are already right with God & with a judgemental mindset. It’s tempting & far more easier for the teachers of the law, the seasoned servants of the law of the temple & traditions of men, with knowledge of doctrines to fall into the trap of being judgemental of others. John’s disciples followed strict rules & traditions to separate themselves from the sinners but Jesus Christ go into the crowd of sinners to give them a chance to be led to repentance. Apart from that, Jesus Christ did not use the shaming method, instead He accepted them into His life so that they do not feel rejected. 

There are many cultish worshippers & even churches in the name of God that build up that wall & claiming that they are for the elites exalting themselves that they are much more valuable & at a higher status than other believers because they need to control them for their own benefits. This is a delusion & may God keep revealing the truth. We are encouraged to serve appropriately according to the situation & not only adhering to strict rules & regulations but missing the mark. Again there’s this resounding sentence of “meeting all the requirements but missing the goal/mark” ringing over all again. 

May our Father in heaven, our Lord Jesus Christ & the Holy Spirit help us all to become more and more like Jesus Christ, serve humbly & appropriately, helps us to be less judgemental that prevent the works of God.
