
---
layout: post
title: Mark 15 - Crucifixion of Jesus Christ for the sake of love
tag: Mark
---
Our Lord Jesus Christ was mocked, heavily flogged, beaten, spat at, laughed at, looked down at, and all that He did it willingly for the sake of love towards our Father in Heaven in whom His love towards mankind. It’s a mystery why God loves us so much but one thing is sure that He value us & our relationship with Him. 

He used so many ways from the old covenant that was given thru Moses then He came down on earth with a new covenant so that the people of Israel & all nations will reconcile to Him. It is not purely for the sake of dictatorship that everyone worship God out of only fear & threats, as it was stated that rules & laws were to protect the weak, to maintain harmony, remember that if one do well & is just, practice righteousness, there would be nothing to be afraid of the rulers or authorities in the context that a ruler & authority is not abusing their power & position. Even so when they do abuse their power, it is for certainty that they are under the subordination of God for all things comes from Him but it was certainly not because of Him that they act unjustly, it’s just the way of the prince of the world right now & it is a comfort that in the end all shall be judged. One fears judgement due to their own deeds, while those who have walked faithfully & righteously shall trust in God & those who are truly repentant will be humbled to the point that they knew that they deserve the judgement to come & will hope for mercy instead of being self-righteous or trying to find excuse to cover their sins. This is in the context of after receiving salvation of our Lord Jesus Christ. 

Back to the center of this message, the sacrifice of our Lord Jesus Christ on the cross out of His submission towards God’s will is the key. There maybe times when we are mocked for our faith, some were even exiled from their social circle, some lost many friends, some lost all their properties, some lost everything but all gain the most important thing that is eternal salvation & all these people shall receive their reward. I do not say that the rewards is in terms of blessing from the world but a blessing from heaven above. This is the part that one needs to practice their faith, not an easy one but a straightforward & simple key is to believe in God & His promises, to stay faithful in our walk while carrying our cross. 

Our God will not shortchange us, I once heard this from a pastor, but I thought it was that I will get vindicated by seeing their suffering, not at all, they may be even better of in terms of worldly view, they will get whatever they want & that’s the most painful part if we focus on getting justice that way. The best way is to focus on the goal, on our Lord Jesus Christ & do our best to practice His will for us to keep on living a righteous life since we know how hurtful it is for one to be wronged that way. Vengeance belongs to God, and our Lord Jesus Christ came and demonstrated that for us to follow. We do not take matters into own hands by committing violence or threats towards others or those who are violent towards us, but we submit to God & live our lives as righteous as we can, we may fail sometimes but we can pick that up again & try again, we do not give up to do good. This is the life of a disciple of Christ then only those around us shall see that we are truly the children of God for we do what He says & what He wills. 

May our Lord Jesus Christ help us all to be able to submit our desires under His desires & live a life the way that He wants us to live. 
