---
layout: post
title: Luke 9 - Our cross & the Kingdom of God
tag: Luke
---

Often times due to the worldly view, the meaning of “kingdom” is easily distorted as being in power & in control for the mere sake of control & power. It is not so that when our Lord Jesus Christ taught us about the kingdom of God thru His life on earth & His rebuke towards the delusion of twisted mindset. Before that, I’d like to address that it’s common for people who are in fear to always desire control & power so that they can have something to hold on to & to be able to make a change because of the feeling of powerlessness & helplessness that comes from the fear of loss, missing out, being oppressed, starvation & I’d like to propose it all rooted out from one source that is “self”. It took me a long time to realized even after accepting Jesus Christ that I always thought that I lose out when I was being taken advantage of, or always to give & never getting back, recently God opened my eyes to let me see more differently from His perspective that each moment of my life on earth that’s been given out is not wasted at all for indeed it has been life giving out to others & this has helped to get rid of much bitterness & finally set free from bondage of deception & lies. It is indeed more blessed to give than to receive. I have been humbled by this & also with great joy in my heart to give thanks to God to experience the meaning of “taking up the cross daily and follow Him”. 

The kingdom of God is exactly the opposite of what has been taught by the world, it is not militant power, nor political power, nor violence, nor superiority… it is humility & the total reliance in faith towards God worshipping Him in spirit & in truth that God is truly God. It belongs to those who seek it & those who are poor because only then in desperation when there’s no knowledge nor skills, nor money nor power in this world can solve, then, only then one may truly know that God is God indeed. 

Jesus Christ can feed 5000 headcount of men, not knowing how many women or children were there though with only five loaves and two fish, He could cast out demons & heal the sick. This is how powerful our Father in heaven is! The transfiguration at the mount also present as a humbling experience for the Peter, John & James as one may be accustomed to the privilege of being in close proximity with our Lord Jesus Christ, ministering in power & gain popularity, one may easily think that one actually has the power & forgot to depend on God by faith. So when they experience this, it’s complicated but one maybe humbled by the supernatural experience but one can also be puffed up because of the experience. It is vital for us to stay humble and not forget that it was all God. In context of failing to heal the boy, when the disciples where rebuked for their lack of faith, it reminds me resoundingly of staying humble & be faithful to God as in knowing & realizing that I’m nothing apart from God, everything comes from Him & only Him is worthy of all glory. In everything that has been done, God has done it. 

The kingdom of God is also to give up own desires & self then totally depend on God, of course to cry to Him in desperation is not a sin nor begging is wrong, it is surrendering to Him & yield to His will by carrying that cross & just follow Him. It is not about being how is more powerful or has more authority to be able to control or to influence others for God sees the heart & Jesus Christ taught us to not be caught up in who being the greatest but one that truly follow Jesus Christ, hear His words & be the doers of the word as well, meaning to live it out in reality. 
Jesus Christ said whoever does the will of God is the children of God, able to enter the kingdom of God referring to 1 John 5. In context this after receiving our Lord Jesus Christ as our saviour, not to be confused with salvation, for only our Lord Jesus Christ can save us. The works after receiving salvation is a respond towards the love of God that has already been given to us & it flows out of our hearts because we love Him back & want to follow Him. 

James & John was offended when they were not received by the village of Samaritans, so they wanted to punish them but Jesus Christ rebuked them. It’s a reminder that we don’t have to take offense when we are rejected for the sake of Christ, just shake the dust of the feet as a testimony and move on to the next mission. 
Lastly, only the faithful is fit for the kingdom of God & I too admit sometimes I lack faith so I pray & beg for the mercy of God to help me in my unbelief & strengthen my faith that I stay faithful till I see God when my time is up. 

