---
layout: post
title: Luke 11 - Repentance & doers of the Word
tag: Luke
---

Our Lord Jesus Christ taught the disciples back then to pray with a pattern & not just repeating the exact words. First we are to address God as our Father, that determined our relationship with God. We are the children of God & He is our Father in heaven. Then we worship Him with reverence just like how we interact with our father as well, a father is a giver & provider, protector & pillar of the strength of a family, it is indeed a common standard that the world has fallen away from as there are wars, famine, evil & wickedness, injustice & violence that does not permit the fathers to thrive but we can rely & depend on our Father in heaven who is omnipotent, omniscience & powerful, full of wisdom & understands our needs. 

We naturally want to fulfill our father’s will and to please Him in whatever we do in our lives. That is when we pray Your kingdom come, Your will be done. It is praying for the will of God to be done but it has to come from our hearts that is in alignment & agreement of God’s will. Then we ask Him to give us our daily bread, not just physically but also spiritually, the bread is also the word of God, Jesus Christ also mentioned that He is the bread of life. In a sense, we are asking Him to give us Him. 

Afterwards we ask for forgiveness for our sins, for we fall short from the glory of God and no matter how perfect we’ve become to follow every laws & commandments, we ought to remember that it was because of the mercy & grace of God that we are able to follow it, as for myself, I am far from perfect & I need God’s help to stay focus on Him & to clean up my acts for God said whoever is the  children of God, he must be the doer of the word as well, again this is in the context of post-salvation. This does not save me, only thru our Lord Jesus Christ that I can attain salvation to eternal life. 

However, one does not stop at the grace given, when our spirit is compelled & moved by the Holy Spirit, we then respond with wanting to be like Jesus Christ, following His examples for we become what we worship. That is why we are commanded to worship God with all our heart, strength, mind & soul. God is merciful and He will forgive us then He encourages us to also forgive others with mercy. I’m not saying to let the abuser keep on abusing the victim in chronic cases, repentance is needed in forgiving. Abusing God’s grace is not taught at all by the apostle, nor by Jesus Christ, nor John the baptist, nor Paul, nor Peter, but they kept proclaiming repent, for the kingdom of God has come. Repentance requires stop doing the things that sin against God, it requires commitment and turning away from sin, ofcourse this is not an overnight thing, God will give strength to those who asked Him & God knows how to help in His time & resources. One only needs to never give up & persevere and trust that God knows best & will provide the best for we only know in parts… 

Now when Jesus Christ was accused of being demonized, He answered them with wisdom in the most obvious & logical way that a human can understand, He was using layman languages of the structure of a kingdom or another word politically comprehend-able that one would feel the jolt of awakening when the truth is revealed like that. It’s obvious if it’s demonic, why would beelzebul the demon’s leader destroy their own team if they want to win, and so if they really wanted to do that, then they would have no strength in their team, in the end they still doesn’t stand & fall away. 

Our Lord Jesus Christ also encouraged us to hear the word of God and obey it, there should be actions & responses that come from our side after we are being prompted by the Holy Spirit. It is important & vital to respond with our actions for out of our hearts flow what’s inside. This is why when He was speaking to the Pharisees & scribes, He wanted them to understand that washing the outside of the vessels, which He was hinting “external” performance does not equal to being right with God. The key is doing all that in conjunction with justice, love, mercy & kindness, not neglecting any others. 

