---
layout: post
title: Luke 15 - God is a good good Father
tag: Luke
---

The key message of this chapter is about the lost and found, it is an amazing feeling of joy & relief when we found what we thought had been lost. The parables of the lost sheep, the lost coin and the prodigal son with the elder brother all had the same pattern to deliver the message of how our Father in heaven feel joy when those who have strayed away from Him repent from their ways of sin & come back to Him. This does not mean that we can abuse the grace & mercy of God thinking that oh we can just stray away intentionally & live a wicked life as God will forgive for sure. 

After we received the salvation from our Father in heaven thru Jesus Christ our Lord, the only way to God, not thru laws nor good morals behaviour nor thru saving other people’s lives nor how good we behave. It is only thru our Lord Jesus Christ that we are saved, this is in the context of salvation. However after this step, empowered by the Holy Spirit, our mindset being transformed by reading the Holy Bible & given understanding of His words, His heart & His will, we’ll be able to live a holy life, not by our own might but by His spirit. We start to feel that we want to & commit our lives into His hand, doing & responding in accordance & alignment with His will. It is just like any normal relationship, when we made friends with others, or spouse or marriages, we are shaped & cultured into their likings & preference in order to have a harmonious & pleasant relationship with them because we like them & want them to be happy from our heart. That’s love flowing out of our heart to love & to be loved. Our Father in heaven desires to have relationship with each and everyone of His children & He will always open His arms to those who are willing to repent and accept Him into their lives. 

God is a good good Father that is waiting always even when His children lost their way somehow in life & He will wait for them to come back but as children of God, we need to know to repent & to respond to Him when turn back from our sins no matter how many times we failed, no one is too far gone if one is willing to repent & turn back to Him. 
