---
layout: post
title: Luke 19 - Repent & enter to the kingdom of God
tag: Luke
---
Salvation is for those who repent & everyone was judging whether or not this chief tax collector deserve it or not. In God’s eyes, everyone who repent will gain salvation. It’s not rocket science… Jesus Christ comes to save sinners & if people accept that they are sinners, acknowledging that themselves are sinners & need God to save them then they will naturally make the choice of accepting Jesus Christ & attain the gift of salvation. Zacchaeus is a perfect example. He was once lost in his ways of wickedness, charging & collecting more than he should & exploiting his powers & abusing his authority as a chief tax collector but in the end when he heard about Jesus Christ, his heart was moved, he repented & return four folds of what he had defrauded & then he gave half of his possessions to the poor. That was his response to Jesus Christ. It is not to say that everyone need to do that but it is what it is & the key is his heart. 

The kingdom of God does not appear immediately but it’s given to the one who are trustworthy in a very small thing. As they learn & manage it wisely, God will keep on giving them more to manage but then again they will have more responsibility to keep & this is why the kingdom of God can also grow because it is given to those who are trustworthy. God will take away from those who are not trustworthy & give it to those who are trustworthy, mind you, God is just & fair, He gave everyone a chance but if as time goes by, the servant is lazy & just let it rot doing the bare minimum then the time will come when all will be lost. This is in the context of being diligent in the tasks or missions while waiting for Jesus Christ’s return after His ascension post resurrection. It means that thru Jesus Christ of Nazareth, we enter into the kingdom of God but afterwards we do not stay there or stay idle there, we grow spiritually & respond out of love to God in serving Him but beware not to be deceive that works leads to salvation. It is only thru Jesus Christ that we are saved, it’s a gift, works are just responses to prove our faith in Him. 

Now even when Jesus Christ arrived in Jerusalem without any royal welcome but on a lowly colt that was already prepared by God beforehand in order that the prophecy may be fulfilled. This is important in the context of the Israelites should know by now that this is the prove that Jesus Christ is the Messiah because of the fulfillment of the prophecy as they always seek signs & wonders from God. Alas, our Lord Jesus Christ wept as even when the sign was given, prophecy fulfilled in front of their own eyes, yet they doubt & do not accept Him, He was filled with sorrow for the loss of the souls as He felt our Father’s heart grieved for Jerusalem. 

God always had one goal in His heart, to save the lost… let us pray for the salvation of our brothers & sisters who are lost & may God open their eyes then lead them to salvation. Let us not give up in following our Lord Jesus Christ but to continue keeping on even when doubts arise, hold fast to God in prayers & thanksgiving for He is a good good God. 
