---
layout: post
title: Mark 16 - Resurrection of Jesus Christ
tag: Mark
---

Now the Sabbath was over, the women began to get busy as early as when the sun had risen, I bet they couldn’t sleep whole night, just waiting for that night to pass or they could be really tired due to all the mourning & slept anyway. It didn’t matter, because they very concerned even after the passing of Jesus Christ, to get to His body as soon as they can & though they thought about a large obstacle about moving the large stone away from the tomb, which may be a hindrance to their goal, they did not stop there. They went anyway and God showed up. 

Our Father in Heaven has already prepared before hand by sending angels to go and remove the large stone in order that the women, Mary Magdalene & Mary the mother of James and Salome, three of them can be the first messengers to bring the good news of the resurrection of our Lord Jesus Christ. Of course the disciples wouldn’t believed it, then again Jesus Christ appeared to the two of the disciples, they still wouldn’t believe it. Not to judge them though, if it was for me, I’d doubt too, those messengers have the privilege of the risen Jesus Christ appeared to them and seeing the miracle with their own eyes too. Finally, He appeared to all eleven of the disciples & were rebuked for their lack of faith & stubbornness because He sent two groups of people to bring the good news. 

First was one, who was miraculously cured by having 7 demons cast out by Jesus Christ,  a senior women, the mother of James, who from the records of the scriptures was very active & involved, followed Jesus Christ closely & had the most influence over the disciples beside Jesus Christ. Still that wasn’t enough, then the two disciples, this time they bear some weight to the witnessing as they were the disciples of our Lord Jesus Christ, but no, they still wouldn’t believe it. Even so, our Lord Jesus Christ did not give up, He appeared the third time to all of them so that they would believe & He gave them a commission to go into all the world and proclaim the good news to the whole creation! 

Mark 16:15–18 (NRSVue)
15And he said to them, “Go into all the world and proclaim the good news to the whole creation. 
16The one who believes and is baptized will be saved, but the one who does not believe will be condemned. 
17 And these signs will accompany those who believe: 
- by using my name they will cast out demons; 
- they will speak in new tongues; 
- 18 they will pick up snakes, 
- and if they drink any deadly thing, it will not hurt them; 
- they will lay their hands on the sick, and they will recover.”

Five signs will follow them wherever they go and proclaim the good news. What a wonderful gift that Jesus Christ has given after His resurrection! Let us all be encouraged and reminded again to fulfill the commission that our Lord Jesus Christ has given us for we are not merely followers anymore but the disciples of Jesus Christ as well. Let us not worry too much about the obstacles that we may wonder about, but trust in God that He has already provided before hand. 
