---
layout: post
title: Luke 16 - Heart matters in the kingdom of God
tag: Luke
---

The parable of the dishonest manager is one of the story depicting the shrewdness of this world painting a picture that evil just keep getting worse. Sometimes some people may repent after a heavy blow of punishment, but sometimes they become worse as they choose their own ways rather than Godly ways. Their hearts already chosen to serve idols/wealth & not God. The twisted justification that was imposed on the Pharisees revealed what they worship in their hearts, it is money. Many people mistaken that money is the root of all evil, but it was taken out of context, the exact words are “the love or greed of money is the root of evil”.  It’s a never ending wormhole & futile. 

The message is about the warning against the twisted mindset of this world to try and justify doing wickedness, being cruel or oppressive with excuse or abusing the name of God. Hence the example of anyone who divorces his wife to marry another commits adultery, for it was already in his heart to leave his wife & so he put his own desire before the heart of God. This is in the context of divorces that does not involve adultery or chronic domestic physical & emotional violence. Do not twist or misuse the law of God without sense, for God desire mercy & not sacrifice. 

The world always have short sightedness in vision, I’m not saying I don’t, I too always forgot that life after death exists when the tribulations & suffering in this life is too much to bear & then I envy the wicked, but God has said do not envy the wicked & I always run back to Psalm 73 to remind myself. The context of the rich man and Lazarus is that the heart of the impenitent is already decided & no miracles nor signs nor wonders can moved them because they chose their own ways. Do not think that we have tomorrow to repent and respond to Jesus Christ for when the suddenly comes, no one can undo it. This is in the context of salvation of accepting our Lord Jesus Christ as our saviour & our Lord. For only thru Him, we can be saved.

Let us be reminded as well that when there’s opportunities to share the gospel with others, to do it according to the prompting of the Holy Spirit in acts of love, or verbal conversation or just prayer & trust in God to cause the seeds to grow. 
