---
layout: post
title: Luke 14 - Value of the kingdom of God
tag: Luke
---

Jesus Christ continue to teach about the kingdom of God that is to value life more than laws or rules with common sense, it is not that rules or laws or rituals aren’t important, order is good but it must be done in love & to be take others’ needs into consideration for all these are to serve others. From the law of Moses, it was clear that it was to protect the weak and needy as there are evil people in the community that will try to exploit or to oppress others due to their greed or selfishness. 

Pride is one of the most common sin that everyone is susceptible to falling into and it can only be overcome thru suffering & humbling experience of training in the journey of serving God & others. Blessed are those who humbled themselves though, for they shall be exalted. When God bless us, it is not to show off nor to present oneself as better or higher or holier than others but to become a blessing to others out of love & willingness towards God because He has blessed us first. 

There’s a cost to follow our Lord Jesus Christ but He is worthy for us to follow Him as He sacrificed Himself for our eternal salvation. There are times when we are forced to choose what to give up in the world, in the sense of habits, ungodly types of earnings, unhealthy types of lifestyle, idols & other possessions in order to follow God wholeheartedly. We are called to separate ourselves from the worldly views & habits. 

God has already opened the door & His arms for us to accept us into His kingdom, but it is an invitation that one need to respond in order to enter into His kingdom. It requires sacrifices not because God want us to sacrifice something for Him but it is out of love & heart to respond to Him from our heart for what He had done for us and God knows what is good for us, He always wants the best for us for He love us. 

