---
layout: post
title: Luke 3 - Jesus Christ is the Messiah
tag: Luke
---

The house of Israel has been waiting & hoping for a Messiah and John the baptist resemble some traits however he is not the messiah but he hold an important role in preparing the way for the Messiah. Although he had a lot of followers and disciples but he did not exalt himself more than what God has set. It’s a temptation that many leaders fall into when they had the power to influence others and may think that they are more than they really are. John the baptist did not fall into that trap but hold fast to the goal & mission given by God & when the time comes, he yielded & made sure that the truth is revealed where the cosmic atmosphere also became a witness to it. 

The social status of a person was always tied to their bloodline or connections or relationships in the Jewish community, but John the baptist exhorted for the people of Israel to bear fruits worthy of repentance and not just relying on their ancestral roots connected to Abraham. They took pride in that & always thought that the promises of God towards Abraham applied to them without conditions hence they do not always produce the fruits worthy of repentance. 

Worthiness in a sense leans heavily on whether one is worth the value of  “something”, but here the worthiness I’d like to propose another perspective, we believe in something because we believe their worth, so if it’s worthy then we believe it then we try to acquire it just like buying a material thing. Here fruits worthy of repentance is also in a sense that can be acquire but not so in terms of we want to earn it using our works, it’s from faith & belief. 

I believe that it is righteous, it is just, it is good that one should act justly, righteously, honestly, kindly & not oppressively, so I do it & be it because I believe so, not because I was told so. I believe in Jesus Christ as my Saviour for He is worthy not just only because He is worth it, but also that I believe in Him so I follow Him, it’s not just because I was told so that He is worthy, it’s from the heart. This is what people said when the knowledge on the head goes into the heart, then that person is transformed as the heart directs the body now. No longer being control by the puppet lines in the shape of words or trends of the now. 

John the baptist baptized the people with water, that is to help them or encourage them to clean up their acts on the outside, externally, but Jesus Christ baptized the people with the Holy Spirit and fire, meaning that the Holy Spirit works from within, touches our spirit & to clean away the wickedness from & within the hearts. Unquenchable fire means it’s never ending, it will keep on working, keeping the wheat & destroy the chaff. So when one believes in Jesus Christ, He will keep on working on that person & never stops. The key is how does that person respond. 

Here the scriptures said “Now when all the people were baptized and when Jesus also had been baptized and was praying, the heaven was opened, and the Holy Spirit descended upon him in bodily form like a dove. And a voice came from heaven, “You are my Son, the Beloved; with you I am well pleased.””
Jesus Christ is the Son of God, and even the genealogy could trace it all the way back to Adam, son of God. Adam was formed from dust, while Jesus Christ was birth thru a woman empowered by the Holy Spirit. 

This chapter encourages us to truly ponder about our belief in our Lord Jesus Christ, not just hanging around on the head level saying because someone told me so but to spend time in prayers, bible study or attend classes whichever that works to understand & study the scripture deeply or exhaustively so that this faith takes root in our hearts & might become that core foundation that won’t be shaken. 
