---
layout: post
title: Matthew 4 - Overcoming temptation with God’s words
tag: Matthew
---

This chapter’s main focus of the text is the test of the Son of God, Jesus Christ as a human being. First, the devil or the adversary that is against God will always try to test or causes the people of God to fall into temptation. It is a time of testing for Jesus Christ as well, during the time when He was famished, the moment when the flesh is the weakest. The devil tested Jesus Christ thru 3 visible areas, food, faith & power. One can also interpret it as the devil putting Jesus Christ in a position to cause Him to doubt His identity in God. It was mentioned two times “If you are the Son of God” depicting a common taunt tactic that tries to manipulate someone into doing something that they want them to do. It is an evil manipulative baiting method that serves as a hook. Jesus Christ did not take the bait or take up the offense as He know the scriptures well. It also serves as Jesus Christ’s familiarity on a playback of what the Israelites faced back then throughout the Old Testament until the New Testament. 

When the Israelites were rescued from the oppression of Egypt, they complained because they miss the food and when they had no meat… Then there were times when they tested the Lord to go into battle which the Lord did not give to them for victory, and they died. Then they fell into temptation of wanting a king for themselves because other nations did so which led to their destructions as well. 

At that time the Jewish community wanted a saviour that comes with great militant power that can save them and help them to conquer the other nations. What they had in mind was not the same as what God planned. Jesus Christ did not use His power to proved that He is the Messiah, but He passed the test by knowing who He is in God by understanding & studying the scriptures and to resist the devil by the scriptures without taking it out of context. Then the angels came and watch over Him. 

After the ministry of John the baptist ended as he had been arrested, Jesus Christ started His ministry in Capernaum which fulfilled the prophecy in Isaiah 9:1–2 

> “1 But there will be no gloom for those who were in anguish. In the former time he brought into contempt the land of Zebulun and the land of Naphtali, but in the latter time he will make glorious the way of the sea, the land beyond the Jordan, Galilee of the nations. 2 The people who walked in darkness have seen a great light; those who lived in a land of deep darkness— on them light has shined.”  

He started to call the people to repentance. 

In this chapter, we learned that testing & temptation always comes when the flesh is tired, hungry, weak, stressed or in pain. I’m grateful that our Lord Jesus Christ show us the way to overcome temptation : reading & studying the scriptures. He showed us a way to resist the devil, so when we feel weak in the flesh, that’s the time we pick up our bible and read it. It will strengthen us in our Spirit and help us to be wise and stay faithful to God. 
