---
layout: post
title: Matthew 20 - Greater is a servant’s heart
tag: Matthew
---

This chapter actually continues on the subject of striving among people but this time it’s among the disciples. The parable of the laborer in the vineyard represent the envy of the old labourers toward the owner & the discontentment of how the new labourers work less but got the same pay. However this generosity came from the owner, since he is the owner, he can choose to be generous towards whomever he wishes. It paints a vivid picture of how some believers wanted the new believers to go thru high standards or hoops just to be accepted into a church or into their community, it is not to say that discernment is not needed here. The point is to bring out that our God operates in generosity. 

When Jesus Christ spoke of His death & resurrection again to His disciples, probably a needed reminder as it’s coming soon & it will be still a great shock seeing the death of the Messiah on the crucifixion. Sometimes people have tunnel vision that just comes overwhelmingly due to fear & might only focus on the bad part which is the death of Jesus Christ on the cross, but here Jesus Christ is reminding again that there’s a good part coming soon as well, that’s the resurrection of Jesus Christ on the third day! 

As the mother of the sons of Zebedee understood what Jesus Christ meant, she missed the mark by wanting to secure a high status or high position for her sons. This matter stirred up division & dissension among the disciples & probably make it harder for them to be united in times of tribulations. However Jesus Christ address the root issue at heart which is wanting to be a “somebody” in the society or to be greater than others, but the value in the kingdom of heaven in God’s eyes is totally different from the world view. Those who wants to be great or first must be the slave = servant for Jesus Christ Himself also came not to be served but to serve & He gave His life for many. 

Leaving Jericho, the crowd wanted to prevent the two blind men from seeking attention from Jesus Christ & order them to be quiet but our Lord Jesus Christ was moved with compassion & healed them. Then they begun to follow Jesus Christ. Sometimes the voice of the crowd seems weightier or even more influential, however we must learn to be moved by the heart of God, when we are prompted in our hearts to have compassion towards people who are needy, follow God’s will & be not wavered by the sound of the crowd or the number of votes. 
