---
layout: post
title: Matthew 14 - Miracles & selflessness of our Lord Jesus Christ
tag: Matthew
---
John the Baptist was killed by Herod because he wanted to grant his daughter’s wishes under the manipulation of  her mother, due to the his own oaths & for the guests, even though grieved, he beheaded John. When Jesus Christ heard of the news, He withdrew to a deserted place by Himself but the crowds followed Him on foot. I bet He wanted to mourn but His compassion for the crowds were stronger & He cured the sick, then He did a miracle to feed the crowd because it was late & there’s no way to get food for so much people. He fed them out of their needs & not from His own needs. 

After that, He gave the disciples a task & dismissed the crowd then went up the mountain to pray by Himself. He did not neglect or dismissed His own needs to mourn but He provide & prioritized others’ necessity first before His emotional health. This is a reminder for all servants of our Lord Jesus Christ that we ought to put other’s necessity first, arrange & steward the people and daily tasks but always find a time to address the grief or tend to our own emotional health as well. Our Lord Jesus Christ went to a secluded place to pray to our Father in Heaven & was strengthen, we can do the same & ask our Father for comfort & He will strengthen us as well. 

Sometimes the evil of the world overwhelmed me & I was grieved, vexed in my heart & spirit, then I read Psalm 73 & it brings me back again to the Shalom in God so that I can move forward another day, another step. God is so good that He never fails to provide comfort to my soul & spirit as long as I yield my emotions to Him & surrender by crying my heart out to Him. 

Somedays we are like Peter full of faith, somedays we are like the Peter that doubt but our Lord Jesus Christ always shows up when we cried out to Him. God is a good good Father & though the circumstances did not change but the comfort He provided to our souls always brings peace & strengthen us again. 
