---
layout: post
title: Matthew 2 - God’s protection in the midst of danger
tag: Matthew
---

## Historical Timeline 
1. Solomon’s Kingdom (First Temple Period)
2. Babylonian Occupation
3. Persian Period (Second Temple)
4. Greek Era (Inter-testamental Period) 
> Some records can be found in the apocryphal books, take note that different denominations endorse them or reject them as the Canon based on their councils respectively. In a way it helps to know the history known in Septuagint, which might or might not help on understanding the New Testament’s sayings or why Jesus Christ’s teaching made sense. It might be helpful as it will give some background and context for the pre-era of the New Testament for example who were the rulers at that time & their family lineage, what they did to the Jewish people. 

> The core principle of who God is will not be affected by the knowledge of it. 

- Hellenistic Period
- Ptolemaic Period
- Seleucids Period
- Maccabean Era - Hanukkah
- Hasmonean Era

5. Roman Era (New Testament)
- Gospels, birth of Jesus the Messiah
- Fell under Herod’s rule, practically under Roman control
- Jerusalem destroyed in 70 CE


## Devotional meditation
Jesus Christ was born during the reign of King Herod in the Roman Empire era, before He was born, Herod already wanted to kill Him. It’s the era of confusion, wars & uncertainties as there were multiple rulers after the Persian empire that wanted to conquer the land and gain power over each other. This illustration can be seen in the dream from the Nebuchadnezzar where God reveal the interpretation to Daniel after prayer, the famous great statue with head of gold, chest and arms of silver, belly & thighs of brass, legs of iron and feet of mixed iron and clay. This is when Jesus Christ was born, at the Greco-Roman empire transition towards iron & clay part. A stone was cut out, not by human hands, struck the feet and broke them in pieces. It is recorded in Daniel chapter 2. 

With that background, King Herod was always living in constant insecurity and fear of losing his power, so when there’s rumours of a King coming into the world, he tried to use his power to prevent that secretly at first, but when his plans failed, he openly executed all male infants in and around Bethlehem who were two years old or under. This fulfilled the prophecy of Jeremiah 31:15 “A voice was heard in Ramah, wailing and loud lamentation, Rachel weeping for her children; she refused to be consoled, because they are no more.”
He tried to influence the magi but God intervened and protected Jesus Christ & the family of Joseph by giving him and the magi warnings thru dreams. Afterwards when it was safe, Joseph return to the land of Israel from Egypt and settled in Nazareth. 

The similarity of deliverance for the people of Israel from Egypt during Exodus, under Moses is taken in as a typology of Jesus the Messiah where in the midst of oppression, chaos, uncertainties present the theme of divine deliverance from God. From the old testament until new testament, God has never change in this, He will delivered those who are being oppressed and rescue them. 

It’s a hopeful reminder that in the midst of danger, God will provide a way for His salvation to be fulfilled according to His will and to trust in Him and learn from how the magi & Joseph follow the leading of the Holy Spirit. Sometimes God speaks thru dreams or visions, or directly when reading the scriptures, or even thru people around us & environments as well, it’s good to develop a habit to train ourselves to notice what is God saying around us by seeking Him. 
