---
layout: post
title: Zechariah 3 - Forgiveness, an amazing grace from God
tag: Zechariah
---

# Devotional meditation
Zechariah continued to speak of his visions from the Lord where he saw the removal of guilt from the high priest Joshua, he represent the whole people of Israel as that’s what a position of a high priest is all about. So the accuser is actually accusing the nation of Israel but the Lord rebuked the accuser, the satan. Then He comforted Joshua to take away his filthy clothes representing the guilt of sins and clothed him with festal apparel which should be a time of celebration and rejoicing. A clean turban which is part of the priestly garment symbolized the restoration of purity to the nation of Israel as a priestly nation.

Then the Lord gave a warning to Joshua that only if they walk in His ways and keep His requirements then they shall rule His house and have charge of His courts with authority among those who were standing with them back then. The prophecy then proceed to become a Messianic prophecy stating the Branch which points to Jesus Christ the forgiveness of sins, how HE will remove the guilt of the land of Israel in a single day. That day was recorded in the New Testament where Jesus Christ was crucified for sins & resurrected on the third day.

It is a chapter of hope, forgiveness and acceptance with a condition that is to follow the Lord’s ways and His requirements. Those who believe in the Lord Jesus Christ will be forgiven of their guilt from sins freely given, undeservingly, an unspeakable grace that comes from God Himself, not by our works nor by our strength. However to be able to rule and have authority, one must follow His ways and the requirements that He had given. That requires works that comes out of faith and love for God which we must not confused with the eternal salvation where one is justified by faith in God.

Paul mentioned that if we’ve received grace, should we then abuse the grace and keep on sinning? He was asking a rhetorical question where the answer is no, one must not abuse the grace that was freely given by God that gave us eternal salvation, but all the more, one must show appreciation by the works of faith as one believe in that so one act accordingly lest one become a hypocrite. A hypocrite means actor or actress, it doesn’t mean the profession but he meant the real attitude and behaviour of a believer that does not act as what they believed in. For me, it’s a reminder to grateful for His grace of eternal salvation and forgiveness that I did not deserve but also to keep on showing the works and living a life that match what I believe in Jesus Christ. He is an example of how I should live my life and produce the fruits of the belief I have in Him.