---
layout: post
title: Zechariah 4 - Not by might, nor by power, but by My Spirit
tag: Zechariah
---

# Devotional meditation
The vision of the rebuilding of the temple with the image of lampstand and olive trees with the oil flowing into the lampstand depicts an encouragement of revival of worshipping the Lord. This time though it’s not by human might nor strength but by the Spirit of the Lord. Zerubbabel and Joshua is being represented as the olive trees in the vision and Zerubabbel not only built the foundation but also to complete it. They are the ones that stand by the Lord meaning they will do according to God’s will.

There are times when we tried to build a church, company, community, group, life, relationships, a person using our might and strength no matter in energy, emotions, finances or time but it always crumble to pieces. Only when we rely on the Lord, in which we can never boast or be prideful of the works of our hands then only it shall be complete. Many times we rely on methods as we always strive to learn from our mistakes and so often times we are so sure that this time it will not be the same as last time but it is futile to rely on our own wisdom. When we rely totally on the Lord, follow His commandments and ways according to His Spirit and His heart, we can rest being assured that God will lead us to the path that is successful from His perspective.

Another point is that we should not look down on small beginnings or just look at appearance as it was depicted that to rebuild the temple from ruins was really hard and impossible but then again by His Spirit, anything is possible, where in the end God’s name shall be glorified for none could boast of it as if it’s their own works. This chapter address the pridefulness that comes from the idolatry of one’s hands and human strength.
