---
layout: post
title: Zechariah 6 - Obey the voice of the Lord diligently
tag: Zechariah
---

# Devotional meditation
The four winds that was painted in the image of horses from the north, west and south country represents the spirit of God and it is clear as it is explained that the spirit of the Lord shall rest on the north country. At this context it meant the land of Babylon, some commentaries mentioned that Persia kingdom was the one that overthrown Babylon and then reign and restored the people of Israel back to their land to rebuild the temple of the Lord in Jerusalem.

At that time, Zerubbabel was chosen as a signet ring, an official declaration with power and authority from the Lord to help in rebuilding the temple with Joshua being the priest to restore the order, rules and regulation of the Lord in the temple as required by the Lord. So in this chapter, the last vision, the eighth vision from the Lord to Zechariah is a comfort and encouragement that they would not have to rebuild the temple on their own but God is their helper as His spirit reign all over and around the land, He will watch over them.

An interesting point where Joshua’s name in Hebrew, Yehoshua meant the Lord is salvation, Jesus Christ’s name in Hebrew is also Yehoshua and in Greek, Iesous, so it is explained to be a type or a future symbolism towards the true King who will reign as the crown was kept as a memorial in the temple. As we read the New Testament, we all know the gospel of Jesus Christ who came down on earth thru the birth of a virgin who was betrothed to Joseph from the lineage of David and sacrifice of our sins on the cross in order that we are forgiven then reconciled to our Heavenly Father, our God.

All these shall happen only if

> you diligently obey the voice of the LORD your God.”

So there’s a condition for all these to be fulfilled, where it’s the hardest of all as we have freedom of choices and often times we made selfish choices which produced unjust results and consequences. It’s yet another reminder that we ought to listen to the Lord our God, if He had asked us to do something then we are to listen to Him and not the world. Though it may seem hard and difficult or even impossible but God will watch over the rebuilding.