---
layout: post
title: Zechariah 12 - Salvation of the Lord
tag: Zechariah
---
# Zechariah 13 - Forsake idolatry & deception, worship the Lord

## Outline
1. Connected to Zechariah 12:10-14 (v1)
2. Idolatry cut off & deceitful prophets removed (v2-6)
3. 2/3 perished VS 1/3 refined became people of God (v7-9)

### Bibliography :
1. New Revised Standard Version: Updated Edition. 2021. Friendship Press.
2. Lindsey, F. Duane. 1985. “Zechariah.” In The Bible Knowledge Commentary: An Exposition of the Scriptures, edited by J. F. Walvoord and R. B. Zuck. Wheaton, IL: Victor Books.

## Devotional meditation
Continuing from previous chapter, the first verse is linked back to the last part mentioning how the pierced one was mourn. The fountain is an illustration tightly linked to water which was often used for cleansing purposes, so on that day according to text of the bible it would be the day of the sacrifice of the Messiah, our Lord Jesus Christ, their sins were cleansed. Jesus Christ called on those who thirst to go to Him so that they will never be thirsty again in John 4:14, similar illustration were mentioned in Rev 22:1-2 as river of life and Ezekiel 47:1-12 as water flowing from the new temple. Linking the cross references of old testament & new testament enabled us to understand the perfect new temple in Ezekiel’s vision imply Jesus as the temple and foretell the ultimate dwelling place of God with His people in new creation 2 Corinthians 5:17. 

What God will do : 
1. Cut off the names of the idols from the land.
2. Remove deceitful prophets & unclean spirit.
3. Strike the shepherd, sheep scattered.
4. 2/3 cut off, 1/3 refined & tested to become God’s people.

This theme of refinement or purification was often mentioned in other illustration such as Moses’ generation & Joshua’s generation journey into the land of Canaan after the exodus, the remnants from the exile of Babylon. By now, the people that heard this oracle from Zechariah could probably understand the analogy as they experience the exile & destruction of Jerusalem due to sins of idolatry & wickedness, where when God sent multiple prophets to warn them, some prophets spoke deceitfully maybe out of fear or greed or selfish ambition. Then the prophecy continued to spoke of the Messiah again, this time using the Shepherd term where we in 2026 have the privilege to be able to cross reference back to John 10:11. 

In this chapter, we are encouraged to refrain from any form of idolatry & worship God wholeheartedly and to speak truth in love, it is comforting to be able to rely on the word of God, His promises sure as we can refer back to historical records where this chapter of Zechariah 13 was written more than two millennia ago. Imagine that the people back then did not have anything else but the word from the mouth of the prophet Zechariah, they were faithful even when they haven’t seen it yet. Still they listen and went back to Jerusalem to rebuild the temple. It is a reminder that we ought to hold fast to the promise of God in trials & tribulation, put our faith & trust in Him, in His words that it will come to pass even when we don’t see any changes yet, for He is our God. 
