---
layout: post
title: Zechariah 12 - Salvation of the Lord
tag: Zechariah
---

## Background 
### Hadad-Rimmon

```
The NET Bible First Edition Notes Notes for  12:11
17 tn “Hadad-Rimmon” is a compound of the names of two Canaanite deities, the gods of storm and thunder respectively. The grammar (a subjective genitive) allows, and the problem of comparing Israel’s grief at God’s “wounding” with pagan mourning seems to demand, that this be viewed as a place name, perhaps where Judah lamented the death of good king Josiah (cf. 2 Chr 35:25). However, some translations render this as “for” (NRSV, NCV, TEV, CEV), suggesting a person, while others translate as “of” (KJV, NAB, NASB, NIV, NLT) which is ambiguous.
```
## Bibliography :
1. New Revised Standard Version: Updated Edition. 2021. Friendship Press.
2. Biblical Studies Press. 2005. The NET Bible First Edition; Bible. English. NET Bible.; The NET Bible. Biblical Studies Press.
3. Matthews, Victor Harold, Mark W. Chavalas, and John H. Walton. 2000. The IVP Bible Background Commentary: Old Testament. Electronic ed. Downers Grove, IL: InterVarsity Press.

## Devotional meditation
This chapter is repeating the theme in the book of Zechariah which is the restoration of Israel & His people and the prophecy of the Messiah. The oracle here talks about a group of people or nations that shall come against Jerusalem to conquer it or to besiege it. From history, it is known that multiple empires were hostile to the nation of Israel & each time there’s a different empire that overthrown them. The most recent one in the timeline of Zechariah was the Persian empire that overthrown the Babylonian empire. Zechariah’s calling was to urge the Israelites to return to Jerusalem & rebuild the temple in Jerusalem, hence the repetition of the same message to encourage the remnants of Israel after the fall of the Babylonian empire. 

His message is to deliver hope, at the same time warning of what happened that they were destroyed in the first place. God’s lovingkindness can be seen here that He cares about them & did not want them to suffer the same consequences of the mistake again. The focus is on the work of God because their ability to rebuild comes from the strength through the Lord of hosts, our God. As mentioned in verse 9 that God is the protector, He will destroy all the nations that come against Jerusalem. 

Then the oracle continues about the coming Messiah where the New Testament in John 19:36-37 quoted the part “They will look on the one whom they have pierced.” The Passion of the Christ re-enact a scene of how Jesus Christ was crucified for the sins of mankind so that we can gain salvation from His sacrifice to be reconcile with our Father in Heaven. It doesn’t take much effort to feel how painful it can be. 

Jesus Christ was born thru a virgin that is Mary, who was engaged to Joseph, the descendant from the Davidic lineage. Mary was impregnated from the Holy Spirit before living together with Joseph & so that’s how Jesus Christ was born. From the four gospels, it is evidently clear that Jesus Christ gained a lot of followers, He was dearly adored & deeply loved. Matthew who was a tax collector, despised by many because of the extortion & corruption by the common practice of tax collectors collecting more than they should, was called by Jesus Christ to follow Him. Jesus Christ also accepted Zacchaeus, the chief tax collector & dine in his house, where he then restored four folds to those who he had wrongly taken from. It is the grace of Jesus Christ that led to repentance & redemption. All this is to point out that Jesus Christ was deeply loved by His followers. Hence the great mourning of the pierced one, evidently among the apostles but also those who weren’t mentioned in the bible. 
