---
layout: post
title: Zechariah 1 - Return to the Lord
tag: Zechariah
---

# Devotional meditation

Zechariah is another prophet that is the type of a seer, visual type of prophet like Ezekiel & Isaiah, he ministered at the similar timeline with prophet Haggai. The prophetic message was for the returning exile of Israel to return to the Lord and it was at the moment that they were called to rebuild the temple of The Lord in Jerusalem. God encouraged them thru multiple prophets and thru Zechariah, He explain more about why they were exiled and how He wanted them to return to the Lord and He will return to them.

> Return to me, says the Lord of hosts, and I will return to you
> New Revised Standard Version: Updated Edition. 2021. Friendship Press.

The main purpose of God’s discipline on the people of Israel was to let them know that they have done wickedly and strayed away from the Lord and once they repent and return from their evil deeds then God will again comfort Zion and again choose Jerusalem, they shall prosper again. It is conditional to receive the prosperity of the Lord, but it should not be the only motivation that leads them to do good, the intention should always be rooted out of love towards the Lord because He first loved us. Worshipping Him in spirit and in truth is the only that ensure our connection and relationship with Him is authentic. There are times also such as Job’s experience where he was targeted by satan, the accuser before the Lord but in the end Job’s relationship with God became real and authentic. The time of testing and trial of our faith often times include suffering and difficulties but this too shall pass, when that passed, we often find that our relationship with God became more authentic, we get to know who we really are, it is humbling, it is painful but it is vital for us to be able to go into a deeper connection and relationship with God. Only when one experienced the suffering and humiliation that one can appreciate the sacrifice of our Lord Jesus Christ more on the cross of how could an innocent God came down on earth to suffer and die for our sins. It is unfathomable and even after much suffering, one can only but look to Him in awe. Who else then do we worship and love but Him alone? God is good and though He discipline, it is out of love so that His children can return to life and not the path that leads to death.

However the history tells the story of when God allowed or raised the other nations to a position of strength to serves His will, they would also fall into their own wickedness. It should act as a tool without over punishing or overstepping the boundary of God. The nations that were involved in conquering the land of Judah/Israel also succumbed to attacks and being conquered. One might misunderstood that God was the one that cause it all, but actually the desire of sinning were already in their hearts and we are told to conquered the desire of sinning with the help of the Holy Spirit.

When one tries to justify their sins or wicked deeds, God knows the inner part of the heart and the intention behind every action. This is why God says He looks at the heart.

> 15 and I am extremely angry with the nations that are at ease, for while I was only a little angry, they made the disaster worse

This is the example in history how the nations overstepped the boundary and oppressed the people of Israel in indulgence of their greed and lust. So God had plan to strike them down and restore the people of Israel.

There’s hope for those who are undergoing discipline or losses for now and that one should return to the Lord, stop all the wicked deeds while it’s a reminder for those who are in an exalted position to follow the will of God and to be righteous & impartial. For the Lord sees the heart and He does not show partiality.